3-4 minutes, we are going to start with the class, yeah?
Okay, fine everyone, so good morning, and happy Rakshabandhan to all of you. So, it's, uh, Rakshabandhan in India today.
So, yeah, most of us are from India, and, um, yeah.
Good morning. So, guys, as I have already announced inside the group, that today I'm going to talk about API, basically. And not just in theory, so obviously.
Uh, first of all, we'll try to discuss an API, a concept of API in theoretical term, and then we will try to.
Do the exact same thing in terms of practical. Plus, we'll try to even test our API. And the reason is very simple.
So, whatever system you will be able to see in this entire world, right? Even whichever app that you are using in your mobile devices, whatever BEV portal that you are using as of now.
So, everything works with API. So, this is something that you will be able to understand, maybe after this class.
Uh, not now, that's completely fine. But yeah, the entire world, whatever software, whatever application that you are going to build, so without understanding an API.
You will not be able to build it. Yes, there are different kinds of framework which is available in this entire world.
By which you will be able to create an API. This is… there is not just one single framework, but… yes.
Without API, you will not be able to build any real-world application.
Not today, not tomorrow, maybe not in our future. So that's the reason API concept is very much important. Plus, we are going to consume a lot of APIs, so we are going to.
Use a lot of model throughout our live classes, because whenever we are going to build an agent, whenever we are going to build a RAG application, whenever we are going to build anything, so obviously we are going to call a model.
And, uh, model we will be able to access just with the help of what? Just with the help of API. And again, this is where API, again, comes into a picture. Uh, so API should not look like a black box for all of you, and that is the reason, so we will try to understand this concept.
So now, I'm going to share my screen, and uh… yeah, so just let me know once you are able to see my screen. I believe my screen is visible to all of you.
Right, everyone? Yeah? Okay, now, let's get started, try to focus on class. Do not chat much in a group, because that is not going to give you any kind of advantages.
Uh, if you are going to, you know, focus inside the class, that will give you a real advantage, yeah?
And, uh, again, so… We'll try to do a practical. Plus, at the end of the class, I'm going to give you even assignments, so that you all will be able to do assignments.
Fine. So, API. Now, if I'll talk about a full form of API, so it's called as application.
Application. Programming interface.
This is just a full form, so again, we should not go after the full form, that's completely fine. I'll try to explain to you the API with the help of one simple example. So, for example, let's suppose I'm trying to use a GPA. I believe we all are using a GPay, right?
So, Google Pay, by the way. So, we all are using a Google Pay, and maybe we all are, like, using some different application, maybe we are using a Paytium, maybe we are using a phone pay, maybe we are using a Google Pay.
So, but we all are using some of the payment gateway. So, it's not like, uh, without a payment gateway, any one of us can survive, you know, today's world, in a modern world. So, we are using a GP, let's suppose.
Google Pay. And even outside India, so yes, most of us are using Google Pay. Or maybe some other payment gateway, that's completely fine.
No. So, GPA is one of the application. Like any other application which is available inside your mobile devices.
So, whenever you would like to make some sort of a payment.
So, obviously, Gipe never holds any kind of a money. So, unless and until you are not going to keep it inside a wallet, so it is not going to hold any kind of a money.
So, basically, your money will be available, your amount will be available, or your money will be available inside some of the bank, right? Maybe some XYZ bank, IC, ICI, maybe, maybe, inside a HD.
Fc. So, your money will be available inside SDFC. Now, whenever you try to, you know, search some number, or maybe whenever you try to do some sort of a QR code.
Scanning, or whenever you will try to go ahead with some sort of a UPI ID.
So, with the help of your UBI ID, you will be able to do a transaction. So, let's suppose I'm a person, and my bank is basically ICICI.
Yeah? My bank is, let's suppose, ICICI. So, obviously, GPA will try to make a transaction from ICICI, and let's suppose I'm trying to make a transaction in your account, and your account is available in HDFC.
Right? So, you are going to request, basically, to a GPA. So, I'm a person, I'm going to request to a GPA that, okay, on this number, XYG number.
Or a UPI ID, try to make a transaction. So, basically, you are XYZ person, right?
It will try to connect with your bank. Uh, means a bank in which you are having an amount. Now, it will try to check with the bank that, okay, so whether we have a money or not.
It will even try to check that, okay, so this user is authorized or not. It will even try to check that, okay, so basically, your limit is permissible or not. Because, again, in India, mostly, like, we have a limit of 1 lakh, max to max, in 24 hours.
More than that, we will not be able to do a transaction. So, a lot of check it is going to perform.
And then once it is going to pass all of this check.
It is going to transfer our money from ICICI to SDFC. So, basically, ICICI is my bank, where I'm keeping my money, and SDFC is basically your bank, yeah? Sdfc is technically your bank, so where.
I am trying to transfer the money. And then, eventually, inside a G-Pay, you will be able to see a notification that money is transferred, or this transaction is technically done.
So here, again, so we all go through this kind of a cycle on a daily basis, right? We all are trying to do some sort of a transaction on a daily basis, maybe multiple times we do this kind of a transaction.
Right? Multiple times. Regularly, daily. No. So here, uh…
I'm not bothered about the transaction in between the bank or maybe a GPA. So, I'm bothered about the mechanism that it is trying to follow, and with the help of that, I'm trying to explain to you.
That what, technically, the API is. So, here, let's suppose I have written a program, or someone has created an app for a GPA, right? And maybe that someone.
Has written a program for a GPA, maybe a back-end program.
By using a framework called as Node.js, a JavaScript, right? Someone has written maybe this ICICI bank program, maybe in a.
Java. And someone has written maybe this HDFC program, or this entire application, which is going to handle the transaction.
In maybe a language .NET, let's suppose. Yeah? .net. Now, here, because, see, a GPA can't ask ICICI that, okay, so you should use this particular language, or this particular framework. Hdfc won't be able to ask ICICI or GPA that you should use this framework or that framework.
To write a program or to write a code. So technically, GPA will be using one of its own framework to…
Create this entire application, maybe a backend, maybe a front-end. Icici will be using its own framework, its own language, its own programming, its own database of its own choice.
And SDH3 will be doing the exact same thing, right? Because no one can ask anyone of this, that, okay, so you are supposed to use just a Node.js, or just a Java, or maybe just a .NET.
To create your backend, or maybe go ahead with the front-end. No one can ask, because no one is having authority.
Over each and every one, right? But still, still, so when, through a GPay, I'm trying to send a request.
Right? I'm trying to send a request to a ICICI that for XYG, this one, right, try to make a transaction. So, XYZ is maybe a UPI ID, or maybe a phone number, or maybe a QR code.
I'm trying to send. So, whenever I'm going to request, so obviously it is going to request this ICICI, and what will happen inside ICICI in general?
So, it is going to check your balance. Check underscore, let's suppose ah, balance, yeah? It is going to check your balance.
Uh, it is going to check even a valid underscore user, right? Maybe to validate a user, this ICI is going to ask SDFC that, okay, fine, this is your user.
So, is this user a valid or not, or maybe a UPI server? It is going to ask, because we have a centralized UPI server for that one. But let's not bring this UPI server in between. Let's not complicate this entire thing.
Let's try to keep the things very, very simple, right? Very, very simple. Let's forget about the UPS server over here.
So, it is going to validate a particular user. It is going to even check a daily limit.
Right? Check our daily limit, and any kind of an anomaly. So, this check balance, this validate user, and this check limit.
Can I say that someone has written this as a function?
Yep, someone has technically written this entire thing. So, someone has maybe written a check balance kind of function, someone has written a.
So, someone like programmer, right? Programmer like me and you have written this check balance function, someone has written, basically, a validate user function, someone has written a check limit function.
So, at the end of the day, when I'm talking about this AC… ICICA bank, when I'm talking about the HDFC bank, when I'm talking about the GPay.
It's nothing but it's a piece of program someone has written, and when I say a piece of program, it simply means that that method, function, and classes, at the end of the day, right? Nothing more than that.
That's a holy reality, that's a whole reality of this entire system, right? That's a whole reality of the entire system at the end of the day.
So, someone has written a function called as checkBalance, in which language? Maybe in a Java language, right?
Uh, so again, so once SDFC will be able to approve this entire transaction, so it is going to maybe deduct a money, right?
Deduct our money, because in your account. So, basically, okay, so deduct… there will be a deduct function, there will be a deposit function over here. So, even over here, right, there will be a… deduct function, there will be a.
Deposit function, right? And it is going to even send a notification. So again, in every banking system, there will be a notification system.
Our acknowledgement system, you can say. So, even inside this SDFC bank, so we have a multiple function, even inside this GPay, so we have written a multiple function, and even inside this ICICI.
We have written, technically, not just one, but maybe a many, many functions, maybe a hundredths, maybe 200, maybe a thousandth of functions we have written.
But here, the amazing part is that, that with the help of… with Node.js, so let's suppose I have written a function in node.js, right, in a JavaScript, basically.
But still, I'm able to communicate with a function which is written in some other language called as Java, right? So, here we have written all set of a function in Java, but still I'm able to communicate with other functions.
Called… which is written, basically, in a .NET. So, technically, what I'm trying to showcase over here, that all of this system is a heterogeneous system, a complete heterogeneous system, so where.
This entire tech stack for an individual system is different. It's completely different, but it's still, right, it's still.
We are able to communicate in between our system, and we are able to execute. So, whenever someone is going to ask for the transaction, we are executing some functions, technically, right?
Technically, we are executing some functions, so it will execute a check-balance function, then check-balance function will return true or false.
Then, we will try to check a valid user function. So, valid user function will again return maybe true or false, then we are going to check our, basically, limit. So limit will return some numbers that, okay, fine, so this is the number, this is the limit for today's, for this particular user.
And then we are going to deduct the amount from this particular bank, and then we are going.
Deposit the amount from this particular bank, and then we are going to send a notification, right?
So eventually, whenever I'm going to press a button, so whenever I'm going to call any kind of an action in my mobile devices, a lot of things happens in a backend.
And technically, it is executing a function, nothing much, right? Ideally speaking, so it is executing some sort of function, it is trying to call some classes, it is trying to execute some function, but here, so everything is written in a complete different, different, different, different framework, in a complete different, different languages, but still, I am able to establish a communication.
Right? Still, I'm able to. Establish the communication. How?
Right? The question is, how we are able to establish a communication, so how I'm able to call a Node.js.
Code from a Java or maybe a .NET code from a Java or JavaScript.
Because the entire framework is different. So this is where the concept of API falls into a picture. This is where API concept comes into a picture.
So, what is an API, by the way? What is the meaning of application programming interface?
So, application programming interface is not a language, right? It's not a language.
So, basically, application programming interface is a set of protocol. Protocol means a rule, a simple rule.
Right? A set of protocol that, okay. And so, let's try to create our rule, let's try to create a protocol.
So that it will not… or it should not depends upon any programming languages. But every programming language will be able to use it. Every framework will be able to use it.
And by using that, by using that set of rules, by using that protocol, we will be able to hit any function which is running in any system, because if I'm talking about this function… So, obviously, this function must be running in some of the system, right?
Even though on a server, on a cloud, whatever we say, but again, so it must be running on some system, so maybe today I'm going to show you everything in my local, and if time allows, I'm going to even deploy it on a render. I'm going to show you that, okay, now my function is technically.
A global function, so anyone will be able to hit it, and anyone will be able to get an answer. So it doesn't matter, right?
Whether it's available in my local, whether it's available on some server. Doesn't matter at all. So, I need a set of rules by which I will be able to call any function at any places.
By using any framework. It should be… it should not depend upon any of the frameworks, it should not depends upon any of the programming languages.
And this is where API, Application Programming Interface, comes into a picture, which behaves like a bridge.
Right? Which behaves like a bridge, and which will be independent, right? Independent of any.
Or any programming language, or any framework which exists in this entire world.
So hope, theoretically, you are able to get some idea, maybe 1 or 2% of idea.
Right? Everyone? Yeah? I'm not expecting that you should be able to understand, like, 100% of API, that's completely fine. By the end of this class, you will be able to understand.
But some idea, right? Some thoughts you must be able to get as of now.
Right? So that whenever I'm going to show you this practical explanation, practical example, you all will be able to connect.
Yeah? You all will be able to connect. So, API is nothing, like, so don't, don't, like, generally, when I talk about an API, when I ask people that, uh, do you know, do you understand API? So people get scared, right? People get scared, and they say that, okay, so I think it's a… very heavy concept, but it's nothing, believe me, it's nothing.
Right? It is something which we all are using on a daily basis, right? And whatever, just open up your mobile application. So, just open up a Euron app.
So let's suppose I'm going to open up any app, including a Euron app in my system. So, let's suppose this is a Euron app. Now, so here, whenever you are going to do any kind of a click.
It's not like it will load all the data, or it will… there is a static data which you are able to see. No. So, whenever you are going to click, let's suppose you are going to click on roadmap, let's suppose you are going to click on Yuri, let's suppose you are going to click on this one.
So, whenever you are going to click, we are trying to fetch a data.
We are trying to fetch our data. Now, where is my data, by the way? My data is available into a databases.
Yeah? So my data is technically available into a databases. It's… so whatever data that you are able to see, most of the data, I would say, or 90% of the data, is technically a dynamic data. What is the meaning of dynamic data?
Dynamic data means, so the data that you are able to see is not a part of this, like, technically. So, unless and until you are not going to click.
It will not load. It's available into our databases. It's not like a, you know, binded with the entire Bev UI that you are able to see over here. So, again, so if you'll go to a profile, if you'll go to any of these courses, so we have something called as.
Backend. And then, something that you are able to see, or this client that you are able to see, it's called as technically front-end. I think we all understand that part, right?
So, front end. So, whenever you are going to click on any of these buttons, any means literally any of this button, for example, I'm talk… let's talk about a resume, right? So, resume. So, we have written a function.
Right? We have written a function that, okay, so click, upload your resume, right? And once you will be able to upload your resume, so we are submitting your resume to a function. We have written a function, some sort of function.
So, we are going to submit your regimen to a function. Now, what that function will do, it will try to scrap all of your data from your resume. It will try to understand all the keywords and your email ID and your phone number and your experience and your date, everything, right?
So, we have written a function, one function, which will load the, or which will try to take input as a resume here. Then, second function, so second function will try to do, basically, a scrapping of the entire data. Now, the third function, so it will try to identify all of these keywords. The fourth function, so it will try to summarize your entire resume. The fifth function, so it will try to basically create a beautiful PDF, or, like, whatever.
Template that you are going to select out of this one.
Yeah? So, a lot of function calling, right? A lot of function calling is happening. Now, everything happens in our backend, so whenever I'm going to select and click something, right, so it will try to, basically.
Fire up those chain of the function. How?
With the help of API. My front end is written in some different technology. My backend is written in my… in some different… backend means.
The actual worker. So, the actual, like, program, so which is going to execute something, and which is going to eventually give me the output.
Right? So, it is going to execute it, and it is going to give you the output. So, how I'm trying to connect my front-end and back-end?
Both frameworks are different, both programming language is different, completely different, right? So how I'm able to communicate in between?
With the help of what? A neutral strategy, or a rule, technically an API. So, we have exposed all of those functions as an API. Okay, fine, use it, right? Okay, fine, let's use it.
I'll try to give you a simple theoretical example, and then I'll come to the next part. So, here.
Uh, let's suppose, uh, I'm going to come. On this endpoint, right? Endpoints. Now, we have given you this endpoint.
What is technically a meaning of this endpoint, by the way? So, we have basically given you this endpoint. Now, what is the meaning of this endpoint?
And by the end of this class, you will be able to understand, practically, even practically. So, as of now, I'm trying to explain it theoretically, but yeah, you will be able to understand even in a practical manner.
What is the meaning of this endpoint? Meaning of this endpoint is very simple, that I'm hosting a model in some server, right? In some server. Server means?
Piece of computer, nothing much, right? This is the meaning of the server.
Nothing fancy. So, I'm trying to host my model. Let's suppose I'm hosting a GPT model in some of the server, file.
Now, you have to reach out to that server, so you have to reach out to this particular system. Now, we have given you this URL, so that with the help of this URL, you will reach out to this particular server.
Right? Now we have even applied a password that, okay, you will be able to reach out to the server, but it's a protected one.
So, you have to give a password, and this is where this API key comes into a picture.
Right? Without API key, you will not be able to use any of the models that we have given to you, right? So API key is what? It's nothing but authentication.
Just the way you try to log in through a Gmail, so obviously you're going to give your email ID, you are going to give your password.
So, technically, this is a API endpoint. This is called as API. So, at this location, and in, again, a layman way.
Technically, it's a IP address, nothing much. Right? It's the IP address and the port number, so we have just given an English name to it, or you can say a domain name to it, and that's the reason, so you are able to see in this way.
But technically, it's an IP address, right? Technically, it's an IP address, and we are just like a… so that it will be human-readable. You will not be able to maybe remember IP address.
Frequently, but yeah, so this looks like you will be able to remember.
Simple. So, all of these endpoints is nothing but it is helping you out to reach out to some of the system.
Where we have written a function. Now, what that function is doing, for example, this chat completion, right? So, if you are going to click, let me… erase everything. So, let's suppose, if I'm going to click…
Right? I will be able to get a response. I will be able to get a response. Let me, let me hit this one, yeah? So, there is a curl which is given to me. So, if I have to hit this curl.
Maybe I can copy it, and uh… Don't worry, those who will not be able to understand, so…
Once we are going to build the API, you will be able to understand.
So here, call is given to me, so let me just copy this part.
Now, so I just have to replace with my API token. So, here I'm going to put my API token. So, how I will be able to get my API key? So, click over here, create API key.
Give any kind of a name, and create. Now, if I'm going to copy this API key.
And, uh… I just have to replace this one, this API token, with this one. Now.
So, if I'm going to… curl it. If I'm going to send this request over here.
It will be able to give me some sort of a output. So, based on whatever, like, a function which has been designed, so it is going to give me technically as a.
I'll put what, uh, happens…
Mmm, girl is good, API key…
In just a minute, guys, let me… check.
The curl part.
Yeah, just hit the, uh, terminal, so…
Mmm… I think because of… this comma…
Yeah, you can do it through Postman as well. I'm going to show you today that how we can do it even through a postman.
There is some unnecessary text.
Let me load it…
Hmm, now it'll work. So, see, I have just, like, basically given a curl, and I'm able to get the response, see? Uh, so basically, my, uh, content was I didn't get it, uh, role user, right? And, uh, the content message was, what is AGI?
So, yes, it is able to give me some sort of a outcome, right? Some sort of a outcome I'm able to receive out of this one.
So, technically, I'm trying to hit this particular URL, the URL that you are able to see, a chat completion URL. Along with this, I'm trying to send my authorization. Authorization means I'm trying to send my password.
You can say. And then, someone has written a function, right? Someone has written, basically, a function.
And, uh, basically, I'm trying to access that function, and what technically that function is trying to do. So, that function is trying to hit a model.
Right? That function is trying to hit the model, and then it will be able to give me some sort of a.
Output at the end of the day. So, I think this is a new model which team has changed recently.
Uh, it should be… let me change our model as well.
This is a model that team has changed, I think. Just a day before yesterday.
When GPT-5 was launched. So, OpenAI, maybe I can go ahead with. Uh, fine, let's go ahead with GPT-4.1 hyphen.
No, no.
4.1 hyphen nano.
Login, let's try to hit.
And I will be able to get the. Output, yeah. So now I'm able to see the output, our complete output I'm able to see. As you can see, in terms of our text. So, what is AGI? That was my question. This was the question which I have sent, and this is the answer which I'm able to get, that what is technically the AGI is. So, AGI stands for artificial general intelligence.
It refers to the type of the artificial intelligence that can understand, learn, apply knowledge across the wide range of the task at.
Level of, uh, completion. So, yeah, I'm able to get some sort of a output.
So, technically, what I'm trying to prove over here, that this is the URL, right? This is the URL. Now, with the help of this URL, you are reaching out to our system.
Now, in our system, so let's suppose I'm trying to inference this particular model.
Right? This particular model. So, technically, someone has written a function, my team has written maybe a function, and that function.
Is trying to take an input, input as this one, right? Input as this one, and this one a message, plus.
Which model you are supposed to call, what should be the maximum number of token, what should be the temperature, so all of this basically will go as an input into a function.
So, with the help of… and this function is available at this URL, right? This function is available at this URL, and this is the password to access that particular function. This is the token.
To access that particular function, it is executing that function, and this is the output of the function I'm able to see. As simple as that.
Right? So, this is an API. I'll come to this point, uh, I'll try to, like, show you all of these Euron API, or URI API.
And again, so curl is one of the way. By which you will be able to hit the API from your command prompt.
There are other ways as well. So, I can try to call it inside a Python, I can try to call it inside a Java, I can try to call it inside a .NET, I can try to test it with the help of some other tools called as Postman, something like that, right?
So, this API, this URL, is independent. This is basically our HTTPS URL, and it's independent of any programming language.
And this is technically called as API. Are you able to understand something, guys? Like, what is the API now?
Yeah? Yes? Are we able to understand?
That what is technically the API? So this URL which I'm talking about, it's technically an API.
Which is independent of any programming languages. If someone is going to give me this URL, and if someone is going to give me this authorization, and if someone is going to tell me that, okay, so your function is going to take this, this, this as an input.
So that is the only thing which I need. Apart from that, nothing means, literally, nothing is required. That is the exactly exact things.
Which is required. That's it. Right? Just this URL and authorization, if someone is going to give me a token, and then I need, like, a input, I need information with respect to the function input, that what this function actually takes.
So, function takes a message, function takes a model input, function takes a maximum token, function takes a temperature.
If someone is going to give me only this much of input, I can write a Java code, I can write a .NET code, I can write a Python code, I can write a code in any languages, which will be able to call this API.
Right? Which will be able to call this API. For example.
Let's copy it, right? Let's copy it. And then… Uh, after copying this.
Let's go to a URI, right? Maybe, uh, 4.1 is better.
And, uh. I'm going to ask that convert this… code, or give me a code, whatever it is, convert this code.
Into Python. Java, and…
And .net. Yeah? .net. Now… The only thing, like I said, will be required will be the API. So, see, it is now giving me a Python code.
Now, what Python code is trying to do, again, same thing, hit the URL.
With this particular API, and this is the data. So, basically, it is trying to call request.post URL.
Headar. Header means your authorization, basically, and then it is trying to give this input. So, this is my Python code.
This is my Java code. Again, Java code will do the exact same thing. It is going to take all of these inputs, it is going to take the.
Api endpoint, which is the URL and the authorization. Again, in .NET.
Same thing, right? So, I just need only this much of information, and if that information is available with me, doesn't matter which language I'm going to use, I will be able to consume your API, I will be able to access your system.
And this is how all of you are able to access, technically, a Euron system.
Now, again, it's language independent, right? So maybe we have given you a curl, and we have given you a sample in a Python. Again, we have given you a sample in a JS.
Javascript, but let's suppose if you are trying to use some other languages of your own choice. That's completely fine. Go ahead, use it.
Right? You don't have to hustle, because you just need what? You need a URL so that you will be able to reach out to our system.
You need an API token so that you will be able to unlock our system, and then inside our system, there is a function that we have written, which will give you an access of a.
Which will give you access of, like, models that we are hosting, and that needs some input, maybe a message, maybe a model name, because we have a multiple model.
So you have to pass a model name over there, a maximum number of token you have to pass, and then you have to technically give a temperature, and then everything will be done.
Right? And you don't have to worry about, like, in which language I have written my function. It's completely fine, it's up to you in which language you are calling. You should not bother about, like, in which language we have written.
So, this URL, which is our HTTPS URL, or HTTP, so what is HTTPS? Hypertext Transfer Protocol, right? And HTTPS S is nothing but hypertrans protocol secure.
Now, what is this HTTP, by the way? It's a… Rule.
Right? Since our childhood, we keep on listening that this HTTP is what? A protocol.
A rule, right? A rule which is helping me out to reach out to some system, and this is how the entire internet works.
We try to type google.com, we try to type LinkedIn.com, we try to typefacebook.com, right?
So, someone is hosting that Facebook application in some server, and with the help of that.
Url, and technically, it's an IP address, right? So whenever you're going to, like, from a command prompt, you're going to do ping google.com, it will start showing you the IP address, right? It will start showing you the IP address. So, someone is running that Google program, someone is running that Facebook.com, someone is running that LinkedIn.com, someone is running, basically, this Euron.1.
And with the help of this HTTPS, you are able to reach out to that server where this is running. So, we are running this, you know what one?
At some server. With the help of this URL, you are able to reach out to our server. And in our server, we have this entire application, so you are able to access it.
So technically, you are using this HTTPS protocol to access our server. Similarly, API. So, you are trying to access some of the function which we have written in our server, so we are trying to expose it with the help of API.
And entire world. So maybe you are trying to order something from a Swiggy Gemato, you are going to click, it is going to check from the backend that, okay, fine, so this particular items are available or not.
You will try to add something to the cart, and then you will be able to place the order. Same goes with a Netflix, same goes with the YouTube, same goes with the entire world. Now just open up any application and click on any application. Every time you are going to click.
You are hitting some APIs. And it is trying to bring the data.
How? After executing some of the function in a backend. Yes? So after executing some sort of a function in a backend.
Fine. So, HTTPS need SSL certificate, yeah. That's the reason, so it's called a secure. Https means HyperTax Transfer Protocol Secure. Once you are going to attach the certificate. Otherwise, it will be HTTP.
Okay, so hope, theoretically, this concept of API is clear, right? But it will be more clear, so when we are going to write sub-API, right, when we are going to write some API. Now, if I'll talk about a Python, so Python is a programming language, right?
But inside our Python programming language, we have multiple frameworks, right? We have multiple frameworks to achieve our different, different tasks. For example.
For performing, maybe, uh, operation with respect to a structured data. We have a Pandas.
Right? To deal with maybe a numerical data, arrays and vectors. We have NumPy, right?
To deal with all those scientific functions. We have a psipi, basically, to plot a graph, we have a Matt Toddlib, we have C-born, we have a Pandas plot, we have a plotly, we have a cufflings, right?
Now, to create an API. To create an API. So, which framework do we have?
Yeah, which framework do we have in Python? So we have a multiple framework, right? We have a multiple framework, multiple libraries, technically.
So now people are giving me an answer, people are saying that we have a fast API, we have a Flask, in a Django, we can try to create it, and technically, all of you are correct.
Yes? So we have a framework. I can try to use any of this framework.
And I will be able to create an API. Just a matter of fact that every framework try to follow its own functionalities, and it is having its own set of the rule, because every framework has been created by someone else, right?
But eventually, I will be able to get an API, which is going to be language independent, and anyone and everyone will be able to call it, anyone and everyone will be able to use it.
So, fine, let's go ahead and let's try to create some of the APIs on our own, then only we will be able to understand this entire thing in our.
True manner. So… Uh, closing everything. Just try to open up your VS Code, guys. I believe in my previous class, we have already done an installation of a VS Code, right? So, just try to open up your VS Code.
Nothing much is required. Uh, click on File, create one folder. So, let's suppose I'm going to create a folder called as API.
Yeah? Api. Uh, API EXMPLE. Api example. So just create one folder inside of VS Code.
And close everything. Yeah, just create one, like, file, uh, sorry, one folder called as API Example.
And then close everything. Done, everyone?
Library, basically. Framework means library. In an interview, someone asked, FastAPI is not enough, you should know Django. I mean, like, just go after the JD. If someone has mentioned something inside the JD, then it's fine. Otherwise, like, there are hundreds of other framework, and…
Someone will tell you that this is not enough. So, what you will do, you will go and learn. So technically, like, you should… know the core part, that what is the API. Now, if someone is going to ask me that, how to create an API in a Flask.
I will be able to do it in 2 minutes. Django, again, 2 minutes, right? Fast API, again, 2 minutes.
Because there are, like, so many technology and so many things out there in a market.
So, fine, guys, just open up our VS Code. And, uh, let's try to build an API. So I'll try to do one thing. So I'll try to create one simple file over here. So, test.py file.
So this is the Python file I have created, yeah? A very simple file inside this one.py file I have created.
Not a .ipuenly file. And, uh, here, so what I will do, so I'll try to basically, uh, like, uh, create an API, and then I'll try to even test an API. Again, so when I'm going to create an API, there is something called as get method, there is something called as post method, there is something called as put method.
There is something called as delete method. So, all of these methods will come into a picture, and one by one, I'll try to explain you that, okay, so what is the meaning of a get, what is the meaning of a post, what is the difference between get and post.
What is technically a delete, what is technically a put. All of these things we'll try to understand. One by one, one by one.
So far, our objective was to understand our API theoretically. I believe most of us are able to understand it.
Theoretically, only theoretically, right? Only in a theoretical way, and by doing a practical, so we'll try to see that whatever we have, like, learned.
During this theory is correct or not, right? So we'll try to validate, we'll try to verify that one.
Okay, let's do it. So here, uh, to execute this API, or to create this API, so I'm going to use a framework called as, or you can say a library called as FastAPI Library. You can use Flask, that's completely fine. Use Django, that's completely fine.
Right? So, fast API. Now here, first of all, you will have to install. So just open up your terminal. So, to open up your terminal, you can try to, you know, uh, like, click on view, and then you can click on Terminal.
Or, the shorthand is basically CTRL-Tilde. Right? Control, tilt, by which you will be able to open up your terminal. Ctrl-tild. So that is a shorthand. So generally, I use a shorthand, but yeah.
So if you're not able to remember certain, then go to View, and then go to a terminal. You will be able to open up. And there are many other ways as well. You can even go and search over here, and then open up the terminal.
So, multiple ways. Now, so first of all, we have to install a.
Framework. So, Python, core Python is already installed, we have already done that in my previous class.
And we have already done this, like, entire things. So here, to install a fast API, so pip install.
Pip install and fast API. So this is something that you have to install, so that it will be available inside your system, and you will be able to do whatever you.
Want, yeah? So, pip install FastAPI. Hit enter, and uh… in no time, it will be able to install it.
In my system, it is telling me requirement already satisfied, because in this environment, it's already available.
Yeah, FastPay is already available, but for you. It will not be… it may be not the same case, yeah? It will start downloading, it will start installing it.
For done days, just everyone pip install. Pip. Install past API. Simple.
Everyone. Yeah, so pip install FastAPI. Now, along with this pip install FastAPI, so you have to execute a Fast API, and it needs, basically, CLER clear. Yeah. So, you have to install one more thing. So, pip install uvcon, E-N-I-N-S-T-A double L, install UV.
God. Uv column, basically. So that you will be able to execute a fast API. So, just do these things. In my system, it's already available, I have already pinged you inside your chat box.
Yeah. So people install UVicom, guys, and pip install FastAPI. Done. Everyone?
Yeah? Done? Yes? Okay, people are saying yes, done, fine. Why is Uicon? Because it needs a support of the UVicon library to execute or make any API, like, available to the entire world.
It's not a UV, UVIE, I have already pinged you, just look into that. It's a UVI.
Uv corn. Just see my spelling, you are doing a spelling mistake.
Okay, now people are asking, what is Fast API? Guys, just a simple advice, uh, try to focus inside the class, you will be able to understand, and if you're sleeping in between, and if you are, like, you know.
Uh, like, uh, not sitting in front of your system, maybe if you're roaming here and there, and maybe if you are trying to do some of your.
Uh, work. I know it's a morning, you all are at home.
But yeah, so when you're trying to learn. Focus is the most important part. I believe this is something which I told you in my class number 1, class number two, both.
Otherwise, no one will be able to teach you, believe me, no one will be… things are not difficult, but yeah.
All… everything requires an attention. So, stop roaming around, and then sit in front of your, like, uh, system.
Okay, good. Now… Uh, we are able to do this installation, so this two installations was required. Going forward, I'm going to teach you that how you will be able to create an environment.
Different, different environment on a project basis, and then how you will be able to keep your requirement.txt, all these things will come into a picture, but as of now, we are just, like, trying to start ahead with.
So, let's go in a basic mode. Now here, so what you have to do, so you have to.
Import a fast API, so from… from fast…
Api, just try to import. Fast API. So, Fast API Capital. So, just try to import this, Fast API. Just a first line.
Second line is coming from the autocompletion. So just import this one, guys.
So, from Fast API, import FastAPI. Now, once you are able to import this one.
Then, you have to create an object of FastAPI. Forget about it. We are not going to create as of now.
Let's suppose I'm going to create a function, yeah? I'm going to create a function called as addition function. Now, this addition function is going to do what?
So, it is going to take two input, A comma B. I'm going to create a very simple function, add a function, right?
And, uh, it is going to take two inputs, technically. And, uh, this 2 input is A and B, it is going to take, and then it is going to return A plus B.
Yes? So, our very simple function, right? A very, very simple function, I believe, uh… we all will be able to understand this function, so this function is taking two inputs, A and B, and it is going to give me A plus B, as simple as that. Okay, that's well and good.
Now, if I have to call this function in this program itself, so what I do, so I'm going to write add, and then I'm going to pass this value of A and B.
And, uh, done, done, right? And then done. So, maybe I can try to execute this entire thing. So, here, I can try to execute it.
And I will be able to maybe get the no module name FastFAST API. Why no module in fast API?
I have already done the installation. So, maybe it is considering a different environment, I'll check, and I'll try to change it then.
Okay, so that is taking a different environment. Let me execute in this way, so that you can consider the same environment.
So Python test.py file. Now it will consider the same environment.
So basically, it is trying to execute my function, and as we can see, that there is no output, because I have not written the print over here. So let's try to write a print, and then… it will try to print whatever I'm trying to execute. So here, Python test.py.
And, uh, 3 plus 4 is equal to 7. Simple function, right?
A simple function. So, this is the add function that we have written, and yes, I'm able to call this function in the same program. Yes, I'm able to call this function in the same program.
And, uh, I'm able to see the output. Now, there is no issue with this.
Now, someone has asked me that expose this function, right? Expose this function to the outer world, so that not just from Python, because we all know that, yes, this is the Python program, and from Python program itself.
I'm trying to access it, and it's working well, right? I'm able to access it, I'm able to execute it.
Uh, that's cool, that's completely fine, but someone has asked me that, no.
Expose this function to the outer world, so that anyone will be able to access this function.
Anyone means literally anyone will be able to access this function from any framework, or maybe from any program, or maybe from a URL.
Right? Maybe from a URL, maybe from a Google, like, uh… Chrome, someone will be able to access it, right? And they should be able to get the output.
How I will be able to do it. And this is where this API concept comes into a picture. And that was the whole idea.
That was a whole discussion that we have been doing, in theory, right?
That we have one function, just like a function will be available inside a bank for check balance, valid user, whatever it is.
Right? So someone is going to request, and it should be able to execute that function. So, maybe I have… to do that, I have to expose this function, first of all, to the outer world.
How I will be able to expose, yeah? How I will be basically able to expose this particular.
Function. Let's try to understand, and then you will end up creating your very first API. And technically, it's very easy, believe me, it's very, very, very, very easy.
How? Okay. So, FastAPI is a framework I'm going to use, and let's suppose I'm going to create one object. Object means variable, right? Variable of what? Variable of FastAPI.
So, I'm just trying to call, right? I'm just trying to call this Fast API, and this is the variable, so that I will be able to access this.
Entire libraryD, yeah? So this is a variable I have created. Okay, fine.
Now, what I will do with this variable, and how I'm going to expose this function to the outer world, it's very simple, at the rate. So, call the decorator.
Decorator will try to give an access, or decorator will try to give a power, additional power.
And then, app.get and then slash. So, this is something that we have to write. So, app.get slash. Now, only this much is required.
Now, what is our meaning of this? And now I'm saying, I'm claiming, basically, right? I'm trying to claim over here.
That now this function will be exposed. This function will be exposed to the entire world… not entire world, at least it's running in my local as of now, right? I will show you how I will be able to make this function available to the entire world. I'll show you that as well.
Uh, right now, right? Now it's self-hyut, I'll try to show it to you. And there are multiple ways to do it.
But, uh, here, technically. By writing this, just by writing this line number 6 that you are able to see over here. So, I'm trying to claim that, okay, now this function is exposed, and API has been created.
Yes, API has been created. This is what I'm trying to claim. We'll see, so whether my claim is, uh… valid, or it's an invalid claim. We'll try to verify that part, but yeah, so as of now, that's a claim I'm trying to make.
Okay, so if that is a claim, then how I'm going to test it? Yes, how I'm going to basically test it?
So, yes guys, every one of us are able to write it.
Let's say yes or no in your chat?
Yes? Okay. Symbol code, right, and again, nothing fancy I have written, because at the end of the day, everything will be just a function, yes? Everything will be just a function.
Okay, fine. So, if I have to execute this fast API, Ctrl-S, save it, and then…
Cls. Okay, and now, if I have to execute this one, so you have to call what? Uv corn.
Uvcon that you have installed, right? So, it is required for the execution.
Uvcon, and then you have to basically write a file name. So what is my file name, by the way? It's a test.
Right? So, UVCon, and then file name is what? Test. Colon, you have to write app by default, yes? So, test app, basically.
And then you have to call hyphen hyphen reload, so that it will be able to reload automatically, uh, whenever I'm going to make any kind of a change, so that I don't have to come and execute this function, or execute this file again and again and again.
So, UV call test, and it's available in the directory, same directory. If it is not available, then give a proper directory.
Proper path, so it's available in my same directory. So I'm trying to call UVCon.
Test… test is what? Test is my file name. So, whatever file name that you have given, maybe you have given some different file name, so give that file name. Otherwise, it will not work. I have given, as you can see, a test file name.
So, I'm giving a test over here, and then app reload. As simple as that.
Now, if I'm going to hit Enter. Right? Now, if I'm going to hit enter. So, if all works well.
Now it is telling me what? You will watch our changes of this directory, so whatever changes which I'm going to do automatically will be reloaded. Uvcorm running on this particular URL.
Right? This particular URL. So where we have our IP address, and where we have our port number.
Yeah? So, what is this IP address, by the way? So, this IP address is technically an IP address of my local system.
If I'm going to host it on some server, then there will be a public IP address of that server. So, IP address is nothing but an address, address for any system. This is what we understand, right? And port number is nothing but we are running one program.
Right? We are running, for example, this test.py file. So now, in our system, so we have a series of the port, right? Port starting from a zero maybe till million, we have a port.
Inside our system. So, this program is basically exposed to that particular tunnel, that particular port.
So, here, with the help of this URL, let's suppose if I'm going to hit this URL, right, if I'm going to hit this URL and a port number, what will happen to… and see, it's running, right? It's running. It's not like it has given you the output, and then it will be, like, gone. No. It will keep on running. If it is not running, then you will not be able to hit this URL, as simple as that.
Right? So, should we keep on running? It should be up and running all the time. Now, if I'm going to hit this URL, what is our meaning? Our meaning is very simple. If I'm going to hit this URL, with the help of this IP address, with the help of this IP address, 127.0.0.1.
Right? I'm reaching out to my local system, this system, right, where I have executed this program, and inside the system.
At this port number, this program is up and running, and this method, right, this method is actually live. This method is actually live.
Now, I have written app.get. Yeah, I have written app.git, and then I have written, basically, slash. What is our meaning of this slash, by the way?
Yes, what is the meaning of the slash? I'll explain you, don't worry. I'll even change the route, and then what is the meaning of a route, I'll try to explain you, but step by step, let's try to move it step by step, so that, uh… Every one of us will be able to understand technical meaning of an API, yeah. So now, my program is live. I'll copy this one. Yes, I'll copy this one.
And, uh, I'll go to a browser. I'll go to a browser. Simple, right? Hit enter.
Are you able to see something? Let's go ahead with a pretty print, yeah? So, are you able to see something?
Maybe, yes, we are able to see something over here. Right? We are able to see something over here. Now, just do one thing, slash.
Right? Slash, and then… call a DOCS, Docs, basically. Slash what? Slash? Docs, D-O-C-S docs. I'll tell you what is this, what is the meaning of this one.
Yeah? Now you will be able to see a beautiful UI. This UI is called as Swather UI, S-W-A-G-E-R. Swagger UI, basically. So, FastAPI provides you UI as well.
Right? Phosphine provides you UI as well. Now, once you will come to this… so basically, this UI will help you out in terms of doing a testing. I'll show you a multiple way of doing a testing, don't worry.
So, if you will click on this UI, are you able to see a get over here, and are you able to see your own function name? This is the function which I have written, right?
This is technically a function which I have written, right? This is the function.
And at this root, this function is available, where it is taking two inputs, A and B, right? It is taking two inputs, A and B, and if I'm going to click on try this out.
If I'm going to click on this Try This Out, right? So, here, I'm going to give a value of A4, value of B is equal to 5, execute.
Now, once I'm going to click on this Execute, execute, execute, execute, maybe multiple times, maybe one time, that's completely fine, right? So once I'm going to click on this execute, execute, execute over here.
So, you will be able to see. What? You will be able to see some sort of a output.
You will be able to see some sort of a output over here, right? You will be able to see some sort of output.
So, it is giving me 45, by the way. Why? What is the reason? It is giving me output as of 45, because if I'm trying to enter something over here, it is trying to consider it as a.
String, I have used plus, so it is trying to perform concatenation operation. That's again the problem. Yes? So it is trying to perform the append operation, by the way.
Yes, it is trying to… so how I'm going to mitigate this kind of a situation?
See, so when I have executed my method, in the console, it was giving me a 3 plus 5, or whatever I have written, so it was trying to do an addition operation. But when I'm trying to send a data, right, through this URL, through this URL when I'm trying to send this data.
So now it is trying to consider, because here, any, right? So, it is trying to understand type of A and B is equal to NE, and by default, it is going to consider that as a string. So, I'm able to get 45 as an output. I'm getting an output.
Right? It's not like I'm not getting output, I'm able to get the output, but uh… how I'm going to… Uh, make sure that it should consider integer. It should not consider.
Right? It should not consider. Basically, this A and B.
Right? It should not consider A and B. As?
Any. So simple, I can try to write colon INT, right? Colon INT, so that.
It'll be able to understand that, okay, fine. Even from outside, if I'm going to call. So, colon INT, Ctrl-S, right? Ctrl-s.
And this is the meaning of… so when I have written, uh, reload, so this is the meaning of it, so you don't have to re-execute it, it will be able to refresh automatically, right? This is the meaning of hyphen hyphen reload, which we have written.
Now, let's go over here once again, right? So, here it is trying to understand that, okay, so any is not required, it's an integer. So if I'm going to pass 4, if I'm going to pass.
Of try this out, right? If I'm going to pass 4, if I'm going to pass 6 over here, if I'm going to call execute.
Now, 6 plus 4 is equal to 10. Are we able to get the answer?
Same? Yeah? Are we able to get the answer? So here, with the help of this UI, what is technically happening? Let's try to understand that part.
So, see, we… our program, our function is live at this particular location, right? This particular location.
And we have written, technically, we have written what, so we have written? Okay, fine, so this function will be available at slash.
This is the route that we are trying to give. Let's suppose, if I'm trying to say that, okay, this function will be available at Route Sudhonshu.
This function will be available where? At route Sudhonshu. I have given just any name, my own name I have given.
Now, CTRL-S, save it, yeah? Save it. Fine? Now, again, go back.
Again, go back, and then try to hit enter. It will not… it will say that I'm not able to find anything. Now, slash… Sudan Shu. Now it is able to get something. Now, if I'm going to do slash DOCS, so it will be able to…
Reach out, yeah? It will be, or maybe, like, uh… what has happened?
Yeah, message required this, this, this? Okay. Fine. Now, so, it is showing me route is equal to what? It is showing me route is equal to slash Sudhansu.
Fine. Now I'm going to write even a slash, uh, maybe KUMAR slash dhanshu slash Kumar.
Slash, uh, XYG, and Ctrl-S. So again, it will be re-execute itself, right? So this is basically a route. Now, what is technically a meaning of this one? Let me execute. So now here, a meaning of this one is very simple.
This add function is available. This add function is available. Where?
This add function is available at which location? So, this add function is available.
Add this URL, this is the IP address, which will be able to reach… which will help me out to reach out to the system.
Right? Then, inside that, at this port. Now, inside that, at this route.
Right? At this location. So, means directory inside, directory inside directory, consider in that way, right?
So, added this allowed. So, this is technically called as route, yes? This is technically called as, basically, a route.
That, okay, so what is the total route? What is the whole route? The whole route to hit this function, this add function, is technically 127.0.0.1.
Column 8000 slash. So, the handsu slash…
Kumar slash XYG. This is technically a route, this is technically a API, this is an API, right?
This is technically an API by which you are reaching out to this function called as add.
You will be able to access this function called as add.
Yes? So, why docs? So, basically, uh, FastAPI provides you a UI, so that you will be able to test it, uh, with the help of UI itself. That's a leverage you will be able to get with respect to the Fast API.
Simple, just for the testing purpose, it is giving you the UI, so that, you know, you will be able to see, like, what is the input, what is the output, and you will be able to basically test it.
As simple as that. That is something that you will be able to access it at Docs.
So wherever your API is running, just do slash docs, and you will be able to access the entire UI. And through a UI itself, you will be able to do a testing. But again, let's suppose I don't have this UI.
Possible, right? I don't have this UI. My function is running at which location? So, slash dahanshu slash Kumar slash XYZ. So, this is the location where my function is running, okay? That's cool.
So this is the location where my function is running. Okay, fine. So, I'll not use a docs.
I'll try to use Sahanshu's, so this… because this is the total route, right? This is the total route.
The highlighted one is a total route. Now, if I'm going to hit enter, yes, it is, like, giving me some sort of a details, right? It is giving me some sort of a details, and it is telling me that you have to pass a value of A.
And you have to pass, basically, a value of B. Because that is something that you will pass, then only I will be able to execute. So now, if I'm going to hit again, if you'll come over here.
So, it will give you this 422 unprocessable entity, means. I am trying to hit this URL.
So whenever I'm… see, so whenever I'm trying to hit… as you can see the URL, right? This path.
So whenever I'm trying to hit this path, it is trying to execute this function.
Simple. Whenever I'm going to hit this path, it is trying to execute this add function.
As simple as that, it is trying to execute this add function, but to execute this add function, I need an input A and B.
Which I have not passed. Right? Technically, I am trying to hit this one. So, hit this one. Execute this one. It simply means that, that I'm trying to execute this function, because this route is been binded by this, but this function has been binded by this particular route, right? But, uh, this, to execute this function, I need to pass a value of A and B.
So how I will be able to pass a value of A and B, so that I can try to execute it?
Yeah, so that I will be able to execute it. So, we have seen that with the help of Swagger UI.
Right? Swagger UI, so which I was able to access with the help of slash docs. So, Swagger UI, UI interface.
But I can test my APIs. Now, if I have to execute it through the URL itself, how I will be able to execute it?
Let's try to understand. So, here, at this path, my function is available, I know that. Someone has told me, maybe, right?
So, I will try to do what? So, I will try to write, maybe, a question. So, if I have to pass data through a URL.
I'll talk about that. A is equal to 4, right? A is equal to 4, and… B is equals to 5. Hit enter. Are we able to get the output?
I have given age equal to 4 and B is equal to 5.
I'm pinging you this, yeah? So just change your route if your route is not same.
So, I'm trying to pass A is equal to 4 and B is equal to 5. Are we able to hit our function? Can I say that, that.
This is the browser, right? This is the Google browser, this is the Google Chrome I'm using. Just use any browser, I don't care, right?
Just go and use any browser. Can I say that through a browser, right, through a browser, I'm able to execute a Python code, 200 status is okay, right? 200 means good status.
I'm able to execute it. So, can I say that through a browser, I'm able to even execute a Python code?
And I believe this is what we were trying to understand, right? From a very first minute of this class.
Yes? From the very first minute of this class, this is something that we were trying to understand.
Right? That it should be framework independent, it should be language independent.
And yes, we are able to use a browser. First of all, we have used a Swagger UI. We are able to hit… we were able to hit that, right?
Then I have… I'm trying to show you with respect to our browser, I'm able to hit again.
Yes, I'm able to hit again, and it's a good status, and when I say that I'm able to hit, I believe we all are able to understand.
So guys, just tell me one thing. Are we able to understand that how we are able to reach out to this function?
Are we able to understand that how we are able to reach out to this function?
Right? And what is our meaning of this route, or the whole URL?
One person is saying, like, uh, no. Uh, two unknown.
So what is… what is your question, then? If you are saying no, then what is your question? What is your doubt?
Yeah? Yeah, some of you will face an error, maybe, like, we'll try to solve it.
But it should not give you, right? It's a very simple function, a basic function I have written. Like, nothing, nothing fancy over here, right?
Yeah? So here, with the help of this, I'm able… so I'm able to reach out to this function, I'm able to execute this function, so technically, technically.
This is my API, only till this point. And I'm trying to pass the data, right? So technically, this is my API, and if I'm going to expose this API now to the entire world.
Shall I do it, guys? Shall I expose this to entire world, so that even you will be able to access my API?
Shall I do it now? That, like, you will be able to access my add function, yeah? You will be able to access my add function now itself.
Okay, let me do it then. So, basically, see. This is running in my local system, right? In my local system, basically. So, there is a, like, there is basically a software, a small tool called as NGRock.
Right? There is a tool called as NGRock. Ngrock, right? So…
Ngrock, and with the help of ngrock, I will be able to do that.
Yeah, I will be able to basically do that. To do it, so just go to Google, and first of all, you have to download, so you can click on download, doesn't matter which system you are using, it's completely fine. It works for Windows, Mac, and, like, Linux, all of these.
So, privacy policy, okay, fine, accept all. Save choices. Okay, so here you can come, and then you can try to download for Windows. We have for illness, we have for Mac as well, so it's just a simple plain file. So, download it, a very small file, so, like, 9MB of file, and with the help of this, you will be able to expose it to the ngrock. So, this URL that you are able to see, right?
You will be able to expose it with the help of ng-Rock. I'll show it to you. Now, you will be able to hit my function.
Yeah, so NGROG, download is done. Now, once you are able to download it, uh, right-click.
And then extract it, basically. After downloading, just like any other software, and where is my extraction?
Where I have extracted, it's not showing me here. Okay, here, okay, sorry, my bad.
So, here, this is a small file, it's one small file. So, basically, I can try to open up, like, a CMD. This location I can try to open up into a CMD.
So here, if I'm going to do DIR, so this file is available, ndrog.exe is available over here.
Now. I should do what? So basically, my entire thing is running at port number 8000.
And I have to make this port. And my system.
Exposed towards our outer world. Outer world means over the internet, so that you will be able to test it right now.
Right? You all will be able to test it now itself. While program is running in my system, so I have to make my local machine.
Global, right? I have to make my local machine global. So, here, you should expose this particular port number.
And this is where NGROG comes into picture. So whatever is running at this port number, you all will be able to access it by URL given by NGROG.
So, just try to, like, open up your ngrock wherever you have an ngrock. Now, just type NGNGROK, ng rock.
And then HTTP, so because it's running on HTTP, not on S, HTTP, and then it's running on port number 8000, right? Port number 8000. So by doing this, I'm trying to say that, okay, fine, so let's try to make it global.
That whatever is running on my 8000 port, so NGRock will try to expose it over the internet.
So now hit enter, and once you are going to hit Enter, this is your local host, right? 127.0.0.1.
And this is the… HTTPS, as you can see, it's IS, right? S. So whatever is running on, like, HTTPS S.
You will be able to access. Now, this is a global URL, guys, if I'm going to give it to you, right? You all will be able to access it.
You have to give a proper route. Meaning is what? So you have to give a proper route, means.
Only till this point, this URL is going to work. After that, to access my function, sudahanshu slash kumar XYZ. So, this is the.
Total width input. This is the route, and if you are going to hit it.
You will end up hitting My System. So click on Visit Site.
Plus, for the first time, and then you can keep on hitting my system, and you will be able to get it, get the… Final result. And I'll show you live, see, people are hitting my system. I'm not doing anything, see?
I'm not writing anything, I'm not doing anything, right? People are hitting my system. Some people are saying it's 404.
So, after slash, you have to give a route, right? Lime juice less, so… to reach out, because that URL is only till port number. I have exposed it till port number.
So, basically, I'm doing a port forwarding, yes. Got it? See, many people are trying to hit my system.
You can see it live, yeah? So, technically. I have written a Python function, and I have exposed this Python function. Now, any one of you will be able to access it across the globe, right? Across the globe.
And you will be able to execute your Python function. And the fun part is, you don't have to write a code in Python.
Maybe if you have to, like, consume it through a Java, do it.
You have the URL, right? You have the URL. If someone would like to access my function, maybe through C++, or maybe some other programming languages, you will be able to do it. Now, the URL which I have given to you.
Till a route, till XYZ, right? Because after that, it's an input. That is API.
4047 is trying to hit the system without giving a proper input. Give a proper input, you will be able to see 200. Otherwise.
No.
Give me Englog command. So it's nothing ngrocks, uh, space, HTTP, space, port number.
So on whatever code you are running, you're, like, a program.
So, are we able to relate now the theory and a practical.
Are we able to relate now?
What is port forwarding? So, basically, I have exposed my 8000 port to the entire world.
That is a port forwarding. So technically, this one is called as.
Board forwarding. C. So, basically. If anyone is going to hit this URL, so when you are hitting this URL, right, so you are reaching out to this location.
So, it's called as forwarding.
Virus detected while downloading an NGRock? I don't know, maybe you should, like, look into your system setting.
Yeah, please share the expose command. I think I have already shared, uh, so… this one. It's not a command, it's just a URL, right?
There is no command. Okay, exposed command, you're saying? Ngrock HTTP.
And then, like, a port number, 8000.
We'll talk about it in the future. As of now, without even authentication token, you will be able to push it.
Authentication token will be required, so when you are hosting something on a, like, a cloud, so when you're trying to export something from a cloud server.
But local authentication is not required.
Fine, guys, yes?
Yeah, make sure you're downloading from the official website. Exactly, NGRock has given you official website, so just go over there, download it.
And if it is giving you some option, like a virus or something, switch it off your system, right?
Fine, everyone? So most of you, I can see, like, you are able to do it. Some of you are stuck, maybe you got deviated here and there.
Because of, uh, that, that may be the reason. Yeah. So, here, I'm able to, like, see, yeah, a lot of, like, a good hit. I'm able to get, like, 200, 200, 200, I'm able to see.
Which is great. Fine. 200, 200, 200, so many people are able to.
Hit my server. Now, let me… of it. So, Ctrl-JD.
And now you will not be able to. Access it, yeah?
So now everything is gone. Now you will not be able to hit my server. So… Technically speaking.
We are able to create our very first API, yeah? We are able to create our very first API.
Now, again, inside this one, while creating an API, there are multiple concepts which exist.
Now, let's talk about that. So, here, we have written app.get.
Yeah, we have written, basically, app.get. Now, there is something called as POST.
There is something called as, like, a GET, and there is something called as post. Now, what is a difference between GET and POST?
I want one more thing, right? One more thing. So, we are able to test it with the help of this URL, we are able to test it with the help of docs, or maybe Redoccs.
There is another testing tool. Right? Which is called as Postman.
So, you should download. Generally, ideally, I suggest people to download this postman.
Even if Postman is not available, that's completely fine. I have a multiple ways of doing a testing. But yeah, Postman is one of the standard tools.
That all the developer generally uses for API testing, because developer create a thousand of APIs, they have to maintain those logs and APIs, so Postman is basically a tool which will keep everything in one place.
I'm not saying that Postman is the must tool, no, not at all. Like I said, so I have a multiple ways of doing that testing, or hitting my APIs.
But yeah, Postman is one of the beautiful tools that people have created, so maybe you should go ahead and you should download it.
Uh, it's very easy, it's available for all the systems, it's available for Mac machine, it's available for Linux, it's available for a… Windows, right? So, just go there and download a Postman. Search for the postman.
It's a popular, very, very popular one, and those who do a development, so they must be aware about it. This is what I'm assuming.
Right? It will just keep your things in one place. It gives you, like, multiple functionalities.
Of doing a testing. So, download a postman, I believe in my system, Postman is already available. I think so, yeah.
So Postman is already available. So, what Postman does… so, okay, I've already, like, done a lot of API testing.
Okay, so what Postman does, by the way? So, let's suppose I'm on a home screen, right?
So, with the help of this postman, you will be able to.
Do a API testing, right? Do our API testing. So, how? Let me show it to you that part as well. So, let's suppose I'm going into any of my workspace.
And then here there is a plus symbol, right? There is a plus symbol.
Now, here you will be able to get get, post, put, uh, patch, delete, head, all of these options.
So, as of now, the API which I have created, so basically, it's a GET API, right? It's technically a GET API. So, GET API.
I have created, uh… Now, what is the meaning of get? I'll tell you, right? Now, here, so I can try to, like, do the same. Maybe I can try to remove A and B from here. I can try to give a key-value pair as an input.
So, let's suppose if I'm… otherwise, it is already able to detect it, right?
So maybe I can try to remove it from here, and key-wise, A is equal to… No, in both ways, it's completely fine. Uh, B is a key, and what is the value? I have to pass.
Well, I have to pass it is equal to 7. And then I can try to click on.
Ascender, but I have to change this URL, right? It's a ngrock URL, I have switched off my URL.
So, HTTP colon slash slash 120, or localhost, LOCL, H-O-S-T, local, LOCL.
Hust, column 8000 port number. Yeah, 8000 port number slash. So technically, it's running in my local host. I have switched off my NGRock, so now it's not global, now it's not live.
And then I can try to pass these values. And, uh, okay, so A is equal to, let's suppose 7 I'm giving.
And B is equal to, uh, like, uh, 9 I'm trying to give. So automatically, as you can see, it is trying to append inside the.
Url, right? Automatically, it is trying to append inside the URL. Send.
So, if all works well, you will be able to get the output. So, 9 plus 7 is equal to what? 9 plus 7 is equal to 16.
So, even with the help of Postman, I'm able to test it, right? My GET request. So this is called as, like, I'm sending a request, and this is something called as a response. A request means I'm sending something, and then, like, response means I'm able to get some response.
So even with the help of this postman, which is technically a tool.
Now, I'm able to access my Python function, Pythonic function, and I'm able to execute it.
So this is another way of doing a testing. Developers generally use it, use this particular postman one.
It helps you out in terms of managing our multiple environments, and then, like, multiple flows, and then teams.
So, it's basically make your life easy, because when it comes to creating an API, right, we actually create thousands of APIs, not just one.
There'll be thousands of functions, thousands of different, different requirements, right, and we have to expose each and everything. So we end up creating a thousand… And when your number of API will keep on increasing, so it's very difficult to manage.
Now, you will be having a tool. Postman, which is ideally free if you're not going with a team plan.
Alright, uh, so, you will be able to use a postman.
Is it necessary to pass the same key? Obviously, because how it will be able to understand that what is the value of A and B, and what is basically A?
So you have to do a mapping, A and B. Then only it will be able to understand.
Ngrock URL is not working in Postman. It works everywhere, but I have deactivated my NGRock.
Right? So it will not work, actually. If you have your own ngrock URL, obviously it is going to work.
So yes, this, technically, this entire URL, the highlighted part, right?
This entire URL which I'm talking about. Uh, let me open up here.
So, this entire URL, right, this entire URL is an API. Now, at this URL, at this API, right?
My function is available. As you can see here, right, just see the URI API. So, it is available where?
At our website, HTTPS this one. Api slash V1 slash Yuri slash chat slash completion.
Why we have given this much of a route? Because we are not just having only one, right? We have multiple. So, we keep on giving a route so that, you know.
Uh, anyone will be able to understand it, that, okay, fine, so at this location. So this is technically the… whole route. This is technically the whole route, right? So, it's running on this system. So, this is basically the highlighted one is a system.
And then, this one is technically a route. Inside that system, at this route, at this location.
Means, at this folder location, it is running. Similarly. This is basically a system, right? It will help you out to reach out to the system, and then inside our system, at this location, at this route.
It is running. That is, this is what it means.
Can this API access through a kernel? You can access it through anything, even through a curl, you all will be able to access the same, uh, like, uh… API. So, it doesn't matter whether you are hitting it through a curl, or maybe you are trying to hit it through anything else.
For example, so, postmen, right? So, let's copy this one. Now, open up a CMD.
And do curl over here. So, CURL curl.
Go? This one.
What is the issue, detail type missing, message failed, input null, B is, uh, operable.
Is equal to 7, B is equal to this. Yeah, this is a good hit.
It seems. My APIs are running right. Unprocessed entity.
So, local LOCL, HOST, colon 8000 slash lanjo slash Kumar slash XYZ.
Question mark is equal to 7. Yeah, it was working well in a postman.
Oh, sorry. So, my bad… So I should keep it inside the…
String. This is how curl works. Nausi, 16.
Yeah? So even with the help of curl, right, I have given curl, and then I have given… Same thing, and I'm able to access it.
So it doesn't matter, like, how you are going to hit it, you will be able to hit it, right? So, because it's an API.
And it simply means I will be able to access from everywhere.
Right? From any program, from any interfaces, without any kind of a restriction. So, whether it's a curl, whether it's a postman, whether it's a dock, whether it's a URL.
Everywhere. Okay, now, so moving ahead, uh, here…
So we have a method called as GET. Now, let's try to understand what is the meaning of a GET. So generally, uh, the common sense that we use to.
Like, uh, receive from this word keyword called as GET is something we are trying to get.
Right? Something we are trying to get. But there is a technical meaning to it.
So, GET simply means that, in other ways, so GET simply means that, that we are trying to send a data.
Right? Which will be exposed, which will be technically exposed to the wall. So, what the world will be able to see your data.
This is the another meaning of a get. How and what I'm trying to say, let me prove it, right? Let me prove it.
So here, let's suppose there is a Google, right? There is a Google. And if I'm trying to search over here.
Uh, maybe a data… science, yeah? I'm going to search… so I went to Google.
And then I'm trying to search data science. Now, you just observe this URL.
So here, query is equal to data plus science. So, are you, like, can I say over here that whatever data which I'm trying to send.
Right? It's visible to the entire world. Whatever data which I'm trying to send, technically, it's visible to the entire world.
Yes, everyone? Technically, it's visible to the entire world.
Yep. Okay. Now, at the same point of a time, let's go and do a Gmail.
G-m-a-i-l dot com. Gmail.com. Now, even over here, so while signing up, so you try to pass your data, right? You try to pass your email ID, you try to pass your password.
Will you be able to see that here inside this URL?
No, never. Right? So, you are sending a data, basically, even in case of doing a sign-up.
When you're trying to do a sign-up, so you are sending your data, sending your data means you are sending your, like, email ID, and you are sending your password.
All of these things, even while you log in into a uron, you send out data. Maybe your phone number, then you receive a OTP.
Or maybe you're, like, a Google login, right? So that, with the help of Google, we will be able to authorize you.
So, you are sending a data in both the cases, but in one of the case.
In one of the cases, your data is visible, right? In one of the cases, your dataset is visible.
And in other case, data is not visible, so I can say it's a secured one.
Right? It's a secured one. So here, wherever my dataset is visible, it's called as.
Get a request. We are sending… let's… it's not secure. Anyone can see it. And here, so we are also sending a data, it's called as post.
Means, we are attaching our data as a body. In a body, we are trying to attach a data, and then we are sending a data, so it will not be visible to the outer world, to any user.
That what we are sending, like email ID and password, because this is the secure data.
So, there is two differences you will be able to find out. One is a get, one is a post. Get is a non-secure. Post is basically sending a data via a body, which is technically a secure one. Now.
How I will be able to create a post API. Let me show you that part as well.
Are you able to understand the layman difference, guys? Just a layman difference, not much, yeah?
Yep, everyone?
50%. That's okay. So even 5% will be, like, a fine, because now you will be able to understand 100%.
Yeah?
Okay, so let's… let's try to, like, understand that how I will be able to, you know.
Uh, basically send a post, and how that is going to be secure, and then eventually, uh, we'll try to understand that how we are going to even test those part via kernel.
Uh, maybe via postman, and maybe, like, via XYZ things, right? How I will be able to.
Uh, like, uh, do it. Let's try to understand that particular part.
So, GET is nothing but… GET is an unsecured way of sending a data, as we can see. So basically, when you do a Google search, it's actually a GET. You are sending a data, you are hitting a Google server, and then Google… so, basically, that is a request, and then in a response, it will give you the list of the pages.
Simple, right? So, it is executing some function, it is trying to do some sort of a search function, right? That search function is trying to search all those pages.
The 11 pages based on your query, and then you will be able to get that data. This is what happens, even in terms of a Google, even in terms of any kind of a things.
Now, uh, so this is GET, I'll leave it as it is.
I'll try to create another function, so def. Let's suppose our subtract function I'm going to create, yeah? Subtract function I'm going to create.
And then here, so function is very simple. Subtract is going to take, again, 2 data, A and B, and it is going to return A minus B. As simple as that, yeah, so this is a very simple plain function I've created, a very small one.
Now, I have to convert this function. Right, as an API. I have to convert this function as an API so that, you know, it will be able to, like, uh, do something.
Masking, user remains… Okay.
Fine, guys, everyone? Yeah? So just do it with me. Okay, so here, we have written a very simple function, subtract.
Right? We have written a very simple function called a subtract, and then it is going to do nothing, take two inputs, and then subtract it, given the output. As simple as that, give me that return.
Now I have to convert that as an API, so I know this particular manner, right? I know this particular way that, okay, fine, so I can convert that as an API in this manner. But yeah, this is a GET. Get means.
So, whenever I'm sending a data, it will be exposed, and we are able to see it. We are attaching our data in a URL itself, right? So, everywhere we are trying to attach our data into a URL.
And then we are, like, trying to do this, uh, request, right? Then we are trying to do this kind of a request.
Otherwise, we are not able to do the request. So, the secure way will be post, so I have to convert this entire thing as a post.
So maybe I can call app… dot post, right? Post, and then I can give my path, whatever path I want, so maybe I'm giving slash SUBTRSCT subtract.
Okay? Fine. Cool. So I have given this path called as subtract.
And, uh, now, I'm assuming that, that it will be exposed. Let's go and let's try to check.
So I have just saved it, and it will start automatically. Otherwise, I have to write, like, a UV core test colon app, and then reload.
But yeah, so it is… it has reloaded automatically. So this is the function which I have created, guys, a very, very simple function.
Right? I'll subtract, and the only changes which I have done over here is that.
App.post. Last time, it was get. Now, let's go to the URL, right? Let's go to the URL, localhost.
8,000, or maybe 127.0.0.1. So, 8,000. And let's try to access Swagger.
Ui. So, D-O-C-S. Dogs.
Let's try to access dogs. So, I have created two functions, right? So, one function is hosted at this URL, so slash Kumar slash XYG, that was a get one, and then I have a second function called as post.
I can click over here, I can try to expand it.
Now, so, this subtract function. Is available at slash subtract.
Because this is what I have written at this route, this is available, same as before. Now here… So here, I can click on try this out, and maybe I can try to pass a value of A is equal to 5, value of B is equal to 2.
And then, if I'm going to click Execute. Now, this is the curl it is trying to do. This is the curl it is trying to do, and eventually.
I'm able to get this particular output. Yeah? Eventually, I'm able to get this particular output.
Now, last time, let's suppose this is the GET function, and if I'm going to click on try this out, if I'm going to pass some sort of a data, and call execute.
The only difference was this GET. It was calling GET last time, right? It was calling GET, I was able to get the response over here.
And even this time, so when I'm trying to pass the data, so the only difference I am able to see, or I'm able to observe over here.
That it's a calling post, right? In both the cases.
I am able to get the data. Right? In both the cases, I'm able to get the.
Data. Now. How these two things are different. So, obviously, one is GET, one is post.
Now, let's do one thing. So, I'll copy the same URL, right? I'll copy the same URL, and I'll try to hit it here.
Simple, right? Call, subtract, and hit it here. Now, when you are trying to hit it through this URL.
It is giving you what? Method not allowed.
This is the difference. This is the difference between GET and POST.
So, here, I'm trying to expose my data, because I have to send the data, right?
So, to execute this function, if I'm not sending a data, function will not be executed. That's a problem.
Right? Now, when I'm sending a data, it is telling me that, no, it's not allowed.
So, you are not supposed to expose your data into a URL. This is what it is trying to say, because you have created this subtract function.
And you have exposed it via what? Post, not via GET. That's the difference between GET and POST. Are you able to get it, guys?
A difference between GET and POST. So, see, in both the way, I'm trying to expose my function.
Simple, right? The only difference is that, that. One is allowed in a URL, another one is not allowed. Yes, I will be able to test it in a postman, I will be able to test it into a…
Curl, I will be able to call it through maybe, like, any, like a programming language, that's completely fine. In a URL, it will not be allowed.
Yes? In a URL, because I have created this function, which is hosted as a sub… which is hosted at this particular URL, slash subtract URL, but it… in nature, it is basically a post.
That's in nature, technically, it's a post. Which I've created. So, post means you should not pass any data as an exposed one. You should pass a data in a… as a body.
Basically, as a body. So how I will be able to test it, right? How I will be able to test it.
Through a postman. Let's try to understand. So, first of all, if you'll come to Postman.
You can't do GET. You should select, first of all, post.
Fine? You should select what? You should select, first of all, post.
Are you able to look at it, guys? What I'm trying to explain to you?
Yeah? So you should select, first of all, post. And then, here, the URL. So, URL till what? Url till subtract. So that you will be able to reach out to the.
System, right? System, and then… a function. Simple, localhost rate000 means system, and then function.
And then what you have to do, so as it's a post one, as it's a post one, so you should not pass a parameter. It is not going to work, because this parameter is basically for a.
Get method. You should click on body, right? You should click on body, you should click on raw, so body, raw, and then you can try to pass as a.
Json, means key-value pair. So, how? So maybe this is how you can try to write. So A, right? So, A is equal to maybe 6.
This is called as body, right? This is called as body, by the way. And B is equals to what? Maybe B is equals to 2, right? So this is called as body. So, body… Raw JSON.
Right? Json. So, in JSON format, you should pass this data as of now.
Let me ping you this, uh… like, data pass, yeah. So this is the data that you will pass. Now, if you are going to send.
What is missing? 6 and 2, I'm able to pass, so why it is telling me that it's missing. Unprocessed entity.
I missed something. Http localhost 8000 slash. Subtract. Yeah, looks good.
So why it is giving me 422. Like this.
25, 10.
Mmm… it is not able to understand why.
Data tribe, yeah, so query a field, this one…
It's a good pass, it seems.
More dirty, raw… JSON is correct.
Value of A, value of B. Yeah, everything seems to be right. I don't know why it is giving me an error. So, POST is fine, this is fine, like.
So, good hit. It was all just on… Wayne.
Why it is giving me this response?
Let me pass A is equals 2. It should work, it should not give me this issue, by the way.
Location query B is missing. No, it's not missing.
And, uh, GET was…
Okay, so I have a fix for this one, and I think I can try to fix it. So, it is not able to understand this data. Let me show you the curl part, and then I'll try to fix this problem.
Let me fix it with respect to this one. So, all these things are… hits are good. Uh, there is no changes, because this is cool and, like, this is good.
Uh, even I'm trying to do a post method, everything is okay. I'll tell you why it is not working. So there is something called a spyntic issue. Because of that, it is not working.
Uh, so I'll come to that point. But yeah, so… With the help of this Swagger UI, I'm able to access it, I'm able to hit it, so that is good.
Now, let's try to do a curl, and let's see that whether with the help of curl, I will be able to hit it or not.
So, just try to open up a CMD, and then… just try to do a cancel, and uh…
Gone… So, maybe I have to…
Call this…
Only till this point, we can… All of this are anyhow not required.
Header and D.
Yeah, so we are basically trying to do a curl over here, and in the old fashion, right? In the old fashion, so curl exposed.
And as you can see, like, uh, it is not working.
So, even in case of a curl, in case of a get, everything was working, but yeah, so when I have, like, started doing something called as a post.
So, it has started giving me a… problem, technically, right? So, it is… it has started giving me the problem.
So, here, how I will be able to fix it, right? How I will be able to fix this particular problem, because I have seen that in a postman, it is not working, even when I'm trying to do a curl.
So, it is not working, right? It is not working. So, to make it up and running, and to make it work.
There is something called as pyrentic. So, that I have to handle, and with the help of that, I can make it working. So what is the meaning of Pydentic, by the way?
So, pairedic is, again, a set of the rule, a library which try to, like, you know, give you a set of the rule by which you will be able to set a data type.
Right? You will be able to set a data type in a pyntic way. How we can do an implementation? So, do an implementation. So, you have to.
Like, a call from Pydentic. Bydn TIC, pyrintic, and then you have to import a base class.
And, uh, how I will be able to use this part intake. So, just try to create your own class. So, let's suppose I'm creating a class.
Subtract, uh… subtract model, let's suppose, yeah?
So, subtract model, I'm trying to create, and I'm trying to inherit, basically, this base model, so that this class, the my own custom class, will be having an idea about this entire rule, rules and regulations.
And here, as I know that I'm going to pass, basically.
A and B, and A as an integer, I'm going to pass, and B as an integer, I'm going to pass.
So, what I have done, so I have just defined A is equal to integer, and B is equal to integer.
And whenever you are going to send a data. It will be looking for a validation, that, okay, A should always be integer, and B should always be integer. So basically, this spyntic class, which I'm trying to create.
And I'm trying to align with the parentic rule. It is just going to help me out in terms of validation.
Nothing else, right? Nothing else. And which is required for the post. Forget it was not required, right? Get is but not required, but as post is our most secure one.
So you have to attach, basically, a pyrentic over here, and with the help of this pydentic.
Right? With the help of this Pyntic, you will be able to achieve whatever you want. How? Let me show you that part.
So here, let's suppose I have created a simple plane subtract function, right? It's a simple plane subtract function.
Now, how it will be able to understand that, uh, okay, so use a pyntic. So here, just try to create another function, def.
Subtract number, let's suppose, right? And then here, so just try to write model subtract.
Subtract function you are trying to call, which needs A and B, so you are trying to call model.a.
And model.b. Just try to understand in this way, guys, yeah? So… This is my function, original function.
I'm trying to call that original function over here. Now, this original function takes two inputs, A and B. So, okay, I'm trying to pass A and B, but how?
Right? How? So, first of all, data will come here. Data will come here. It will validate.
It will validate. So this is our parent tick. This is our parent tick implementation. So Pyntic is, again, another library, which is going to help me out in terms of a data validation. And going forward, even in LangChain, Langraph, Llama indexes.
We will end up using multiple times this pyntic, right? Multiple times, not just one or two pide intake. So, you will be able to see many examples.
So, data will come, first of all, here, and it is going to validate that, okay, A is equal to integer, and B is equal to integer. So whether it's an integer or not, only that validation it will do. If data someone has passed, and data is available in some different format, it will not be able to accept.
And once it will be passed over here, so I'm trying to create a function, and I'm trying to give access to the model, subtract model, this one.
And now, this model variable, model.A, means whatever data which came here, just try to access A out of it, and then B out of it. So, this is called as partenting implementation.
Which I'm using for our data validation in the first place. Okay, now, so once this is created, now expose it as a, like, a… expose it as a, like, a UAPI.
So, app.pust, and then… Slaz?
Subtract, yeah? So, this is the function available at this API, at this location, and technically, this is calling my function, original function, and technically, it's using a parent equal.
Now, Ctrl-S, right? Ctrl-s.
Now, UVicon Test App Reload. So just try to execute it. And let me give you this piece of the code.
So that, in parallel. You all will be able to do this experiment. So I've given you the code, guys. So, I have a GET as well as I have a post over here.
Now, what I will do, so localhost 8000 subtract, now let's try to send. And see, my issue has fixed.
That was the issue. So, basically, when I'm trying to do a post.
It requires a check. Check on the data that you are trying to pass.
It requires a validation. It's a secure one, right? And nowadays, almost all the framework is like a using up identity one. Nowadays, everyone has implemented the pytentic in a Python, so they say that, that, okay, fine, so first validate, and then pass.
So this is what my pyrentic is trying to do, and now my same issue, same code, everything is same, I'm not saying anything.
Right? It was post, it was the same URL, right? And, like, I was able to, like, send this data, same data, and now my issue is gone. I'm able to get my output.
So I'm able to technically test my API. The only issue was what?
So, whenever you are trying to create a post method, so you have to pass a data inside it with the help of parenthes, you have to do a data validation with a pyntic.
One, and then only you will be able to pass a data.
And you will be able to test it in case of post. In case of Git, it's not required, it's completely fine, you can leave it.
So this is our body. Right? This is the body parameter which I'm trying to pass. So I'm trying to pass a parameter via…
Body. So, body, raw, JSON. Is it making sense to all of us guys?
Yep. Now, if I'm going to do a curl, see, even curl is working now.
Sorry, Carl was working even for, like, before. So, here, if I'm going to do…
Let me show it to you. Okay, so in this way, curl is telling me that methods are not allowed. Obviously, method will not be allowed, because.
I have to send our data via body. Yeah? So, I have to send the data via body.
Let me show it to you. So, is it… is it working? Are we able to test it through a postman?
Everyone?
Yeah?
Yes? So, here, if I have to, like, test this same thing via curl, so how I can write it, or how I can do it, let me write it down, let me show it to you.
Cls clear, yeah. So, first of all, I'll write curl, and then inside the string, I can try to write my URL. So this is my URL, localhost colon 8000, subtract, right? So this was technically my URL.
Now, here, so I can try to give a data, so to give a data, slash D is a, like, basically this is a notation for giving a data.
So, to pass a data. Now, let's try to pass our data over here. So, I will try to pass a data as a JSON, as a key-value pair, so A.
And A is equal to what? So, A is equal to, let's suppose, like, a 3.
And then, B, I'm going to pass. So, B and B is equals to what? So, B is equal to, let's suppose, 2 I'm going to give.
Right? This one. So in this way, I can try to pass a data. Hyphen D means passing a data over here.
Hit enter, sorry. I have to even write post-right.
So, method type is what? So, hyphen. X, B, O.
Ost, post. Input should be a validated one. What is an issue?
Well, it should not give me issue, by the way. I think I have written the correct curl.
Uh, I have to attach header as well, let me attach it.
So, data, header, let me pass. Again, uh, issue…
Let me test it.
Mmm… it is not able to bypass my pyntic. That's a whole issue.
This one… And this one…
Plus… slash…
Hmm, now it's working. So, basically, there was an issue with the Pyntic, uh, I have to pass a data so that it will be able to parse my entire, like.
Data set as an integer. So basically, our new line. So I've written, like, new line, new line, new line, new line, something like this I have written.
So this is a curl command, guys, to… Test this one. Test this entire thing, yeah?
This is the call command. But again, not very different, so I'm able to, like, uh…
Best as a curl, I'm able to even test from the postman. So, Postman is one of the neat and clean and the simple one, by the way. So, whenever you're testing it, something, some APIs with the Postman.
Uh, if… your API is good, then Postman is the easiest possible way by which you can test it.
But now, I believe we all are able to understand that what is the difference between POST and GET, and whenever we are trying to create a POST API.
So, what we are supposed to do, and whenever we are trying to create a GET API, what we are supposed to do?
So both is done. Now, the… another one is called as put and delete. So, maybe it's a time now. Uh, we'll try to talk about this put and delete.
Tomorrow, uh, the whole idea and intention was to explain you and to teach you that, uh, what is an API.
And hope, after today's class, all of you are able to understand, and where we are going to use it.
So technically, everywhere, right? Technically, everywhere we are going to use an API. Now, if you will go to, right, now, if you will go to Euron.
If you will go to Euron, and if you'll go to Yuri API.
And then, if you will look into this one, like, uh, endpoints, right?
You all will be able to understand. That, what is the meaning of this one, right? What is the meaning of this URL? What, technically, this URL is trying to do?
Where we are trying to do a curl over here, right? I can just copy the same codebase, I can ask that, that, okay, convert that into a Pyth.
We know that, that we just need a URL, right? And if it is a secured one, then token, and then… A body, where we can try to pass our input. That's it. And we all understand now that what is the… ideally, what is the meaning of it, right?
Again, for embedding, right? So, what is the meaning of it? We know.
So, we are trying to hit our function with this URL, right? We are trying to hit a function with this URL.
Uh, we are trying to pass our password over here, right, inside a header, and then as a data slash hyphen demands data.
Right? It's a post method, it's a post method, right? So, as a data, we are trying to pass these two data.
Very simple, right? Very simple. This is what it means. Yeah? Now, if I look into this speech API, right, we have given you a, like, a text-to-speech as well.
So, speech, uh, function is available at this location. Yes, speech function is available at this location. We are trying to pass our header. Header means we are trying to pass our, basically, token, password, basically, and then.
We are trying to pass our input data, hyphen d. Hyphen D means input data we are trying to pass. So, these are the key and values we are trying to pass. So, we will be able to understand even this one.
If I have to call this one as a Python code, as a Java code, not an issue at all.
Yes, I will be able to call it. Now, if I'll come to this image API, which is going to generate an image for me.
Technically, this image API is going to generate an image for me, right? So my image generation function is available at this location.
This is the API which I'm trying to pass, this is… the API key, and this is the data.
Right? So, model, and then number of images, size, quality, responses, and then eventually this is going to generate an image for me. Now, if I have to call it as a Python function, not an issue at all.
I will be able to call it as a Python function, right? Now, if you will come even inside the code example.
So here we have given you, uh, like, a Python, JavaScript, and curl.
Right? So, I've given you three, let's suppose, but yeah, doesn't matter which programming language you are going to use, you all will be able to use it.
Yes? And even without using a programming language, let's suppose I have to hit it through a postman. I can hit it through a postman, I can try to test it through a postman.
Are we able to understand it, guys? Overall, like, what is the concept behind an API?
And how does API actually work in a backend? Are we able to understand, are we able to get that point?
Yes? So any no, any no inside the class, I can say all, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Yeah? So we are able to create our own API, we are able to test our own API, so two kinds of API, one is a GET, one is a POST we have created.
Yeah? Tomorrow, I'll be discussing about put and, uh, sorry, I'll try to… yeah, put and delete.
Support is nothing but update, and delete means delete. But I'll show you, like, how to do it.
Yes? Yes, but needs some simple docs or node 2. Why do you need a… are you sitting in a school or college class? Where do you need, like, where you need a doc, like…
Uh, you know, notes of each and every, like, uh, things that I'm going to teach.
Wherever notes will be required, I'll upload the nodes. But again, don't keep this kind of expectation, at least in my class. I don't teach in that way.
Then I'll teach you how… I'll give you a lecture for 2 hours, then I'll prepare the notes for you, I'll give you even a note which you will dump inside some of XYZ directories, which you will never look into.
Right? It's a practical thing which I'm trying to teach you, and if you have this kind of a mindset that, okay, you will try to take a note of each and everything, and that too, even for, like, a practical thing which I'm going to teach you, believe me, you will never be able to learn.
You're not going to give some UPSC exam, or maybe it's your 10th and 12th exam. You are going to build a product, right?
Now, to build a product, you need a practical. Yeah, so leave that mindset. If you have that kind of a mindset, the old mindset, the rote learning kind of a mindset.
With this, you will never be able to survive in a tech industry, at least.
Never. Okay, so…
Okay, so now it's assignment time, guys, so I'm giving you assignments so that, you know, you will be able to create an API, and then you will be able to, like, test each and everything on your own.
And that assignment that you have to do. So let's just wait for some time.
And just do this assignment, after this, you will be able to understand. So, if you are not able to understand, maybe 1 or 2%.
You will be able to understand it in an easiest possible way.
So, let me give you an assignment. So this is a question number one.
That you have to do?
This is, uh, question number 2. That you have to do?
And this is basically a kosher number 3. Yeah, these are question number 3.
So, it's very simple. The very first one that, uh, the very first assignment question that we have given to you is create a FastAP application that exposes a post endpoint.
To multiply two numbers. So, already we have done for subtraction and addition, get and post. So, just have to do a multiplication, and then the route is going to be slash multiply, and you have to test it via the post curl and Python. So, just, like, do this part. Then, second one is basically a calculator API. So, in a calculator, you have to create an addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, or any n number of other functions.
And then all of those functions you should be able to access it through an API, fine? So, all this detail is given over here.
Then third one is basically a user registration. So, whenever you go to any website and register yourself for the very first time.
So, basically, you will try to enter your detail, maybe a username and mobile number, or maybe a location, each and everything, we try to enter, and that goes into a databases, right? So, it is going to hit some APIs, and then we send our data into our databases, so that it will be able to store it into our databases.
Now, here, so you just have to create, like, a POST function, because you are sending a user email ID and password, so that should be a post, that should not be GET.
By the way, because now we understand what is the difference between get and post, so you have to create, basically, a post where you are sending a data, email ID, password, and a user name, and.
Uh, technically, like, uh, from other ends, so you are able to get some sort of a message saying that, okay, fine, so it's the correct user ID, phone number.
And whatever it is. So, just try to, like, create an API, and then… API.
Assignment. Question.
So after that, I don't think that any one of you will face any kind of an issue.
So, where is the file? Ctrl-s…
D-type downloads, okay. C, D…
Download… API…
Yeah.
Okay, so I have just given you the assignment question inside your group. That's the first part.
Now, it will be… your assignment will be uploaded even inside your dashboard. So, once we are going to upload a.
Recorded. So I think we all know that recording will take some time, maybe 2 to 3 hours of time, and I don't want you to wait for that long. Maybe you can start completing your assignment now itself.
So that's the reason, so I'm pinging you the entire assignment question. Even… Here, so that you all will be able to download it. So, let me ping you inside a Zoom. I have already pinged you even inside your.
Group.
Yeah, so it's available inside of Zoom, so now you can download.
I think it's showing me network, disconnected, click to retry.
There is some issue with the Zoom upload. I can just copy it and paste it.
Zoom, unable to find assignment. Yeah, I'm just trying to copy and paste it, and it's very long, so it's not allowing me, it seems.
So, here is a question number 1. I can't paste all of these messages together, so here is a question number 2.
And here's a question number 3. Now, whenever I'm going to upload the recording, which will take eventually, like, a… 2, 3, 4 hours. The last time, Saturday it was quick, but yeah, on Sunday, so it was giving…
Has some issue with respect to a DRM system. But yeah, it will be available by evening, so along with that, I will be uploading this one. Plus, I will be uploading.
This one as well, this material. So whatever I am going to dis… whatever I have discussed, so I'll be uploading even a codebase. Code base will be uploaded.
Inside your recording. So, here, API…
Theory. Bye.
So, API theory, your assignment and this particular code will be available inside your dashboard, along with the recording.
But yeah, it will take some time. So, not quick, as we all know.
Can you please attach in the resources? I think I'm speaking in English, right? And we all understand the English language.
Yeah? So why people keep on asking the same thing again and again? I don't understand. Even in group, I can see.
That there were some misadventure which was going on, and uh… I think, guys, we all are mature enough, right? So please, uh…
Maintain a distance from such activities. I think that will be… And I'm telling you in the beginning of the class, and I'll keep on telling you these things again and again and again in every classes.
So that we all can learn in as smooth as possible way.
You are technically a roaster. Yeah, I do a lot, I love it, basically. I do a lot.
I love roasting people. Okay, fine, so those who is having any kind of a question, please be here. Those who don't have any kind of a caution, you can drop from this class. Your class is over. I'm not going to discuss anything new now. So, yeah.
Thank you so much, and hope all of you have liked the class.
If you have any kind of feedback, so you have a group which is open for all kind of a conversation.
The productive one, obviously, right. So, you can give me a feedback over there, you can give me a feedback even over here.
So are you able to understand your API guys? Most of you, maybe, like, 60-70%, not 100%, maybe 60-70%.
Yes? Okay, then I'm happy. We all are happy, yeah? 90%. 80%, 70% is also fine. Because, again and again, we'll keep on using these things.
Yeah, so, Pajandrah is saying, I don't understand how to use ngrog.
Okay. Ng log is nothing but ngroc, and then, like, uh, your HTTP, and then port number.
Symbol, and we'll expose. So whatever is running on that particular port number, it will expose that.
To the outer world. By when should we finish the assignment? So, see guys, I'm not a school teacher.
Right? I'm not a schoolteacher at all, so I'm not going to check your assignment, and you are neither, like, a school student.
Right? Or a college student. And, uh, even if I'm going to give you a marks for the assignment, that is not going to help me or help.
You out, right? Again, it will try to create a friction. So, I'm giving you assignment as of now, and very soon, within 2-3 weeks, you will be able to see that I will start giving you challenges, a lot of challenges, right? A lot of challenges.
And I will be expecting that, that with honesty. All of you are going to work on those assignment and unchallenges.
You have an AI, validate with it, I have already given you a group, maybe you can try to, like, uh… pick your learning partner if you want. Right, let's suppose you would like to learn with maybe two people, three people, and then maybe create your own separate group and do all kind of a discussion in your own group, own private group, right? My responsibility was to create a community. Yes, we have a community, and that community will keep on growing.
So that that community will be able to help you out, not in just the terms of learning, because that is a stage number one, right?
The major part is, like, a transition. So that community will be able to help you out.
And, uh, yeah, so whatever assignment I'm giving you. Try to solve it. Try to solve it, try to validate it, try to discuss with your groups, your mini group, basically, three to four people are, uh.
Try to validate it with the AI. Uh, so we are not going to behave like a school child, because that is not going to help any one of us, and that is not my style of taking the classes.
Right? So don't think that I'll give you assignment, then I'll ask you to submit the assignment, then I'll check it, uh, check it for you, and then I'll give you a marks out of 10 out of 100.
Right? What you will do with that marks? At the end of the day, we all have to write the code. We have to build a system.
Right? So whenever I'm giving you challenges, build it, do it, and show it to everyone, that I have built this particular system.
As of now, it's just assignment, but in 2-3 weeks, we'll start building a system as well.
In 2-3 weeks only. Yes, I believe this approach is good, and all of you are okay with it.
Yes, everyone? Yeah? So, we'll not behave like a school and college. We are not in a school and college. It's a professional…
Things that we are trying to learn, and here, we'll try to learn less, we'll try to build more.
Because that is the only way. Because, see, I'm into this teaching profession since last 8-9 year.
Uh, so, uh, and many people not just one, two, maybe more than 10,000 people have done the transition, uh, and.
Because of this philosophy. So it's a proven one, by the way.
Would you teach Flask also? No, not at all. So, if you have to, like, learn Flask, come to my Python classes.
Over there, I used to teach Flask. So I have, like, a separate class for separate, separate things, because I can't, like, teach everything in one single class. Just practically, that is not possible, and again, people will…
Like, uh, get bored by those things. Okay, fine, guys, uh, so, uh, now, let's start a doubt clearing. So, I think we all know that drill. So, to do a doubt clearing, you can even share your screen, right? So, doubt clearing-wise, you can share your screen, you can chat, and all those things can be done. So, just raise your hand.
You must be able to see a raise hand option, uh, the icon, right? So raise your hand, one by one, I'm going to call out your name.
And, uh, yeah, if you would like to share the screen, share your screen. If you would like to, like, ask some doubt, do it. I don't have any issue. I'm open for all discussion. Yeah, so Karthik, go ahead, Mukesh, go ahead, Jabir, go ahead.
Uh, Abhinas. So first, Karthik, then Mukesh, then Jabir, and then, like, uh, Avinaz, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you for that class, Mr. Fall. Um, so I am just trying… I'm just trying to run, uh, the API with Yubicon, uh, from.
Outside the directory. So when I'm just trying to give it a full path, it is not taking… it is giving me an error that, um.
In a Windows, so basically it will be like, uh, you have to give a backslash. So, in a Windows, if you're trying to run it.
Perfect. Yeah, I did that, but I'm still not able to do it. Can I share my screen quickly?
Yeah, you can share the screen, but go into a directory, then try to, I mean, like.
The only thing is fine.
Yeah, actually, I've tried 3 for combinations, nothing was working out, so I was like… Um, if I'm doing something, or should I escape it or not, like…
Serious screen, share your screen. Next question, please, in between.
Um, uh, I'm… I'm not getting an option to share it.
Uh, no, I have added you as a panelist, so you will join again as a panelist.
Yeah, in between, so, uh, next one, Mugesh, what is your question?
Okay, got it.
Yes, it's a recorded session, so if possible, can you minimize, uh, like, live videos, uh, so that I will get the full skin?
Because in the corner, uh, right top corner, uh, there's some, like, no… a block is coming, and a few of the options were low whenever we are going to…
I was not able to follow up, so…
That is a default, like, a recording, and in a corner, so obviously there will be.
My photo, right?
But yeah, there is no option in Zoom. By default, Zoom records a session in that way.
Yeah, I mean, it should be minimized, I'm not much, uh, bigger, uh…
Okay. Okay.
In live, so I can… I can remove that part. But, uh, in a recording, so it's a default recording with Jones repair. We are not doing a… Like, uh, anything extra from, like, our side, basically.
Yeah.
Got it. Yeah, because… and a few pays, like, whenever I was trying to, like, NS Rock and all, I was not able to follow up, and.
By, like, no, uh, by the time, I was trying to… figure it out my issue, uh, like, no, some… something was missed, like, no, the…
Capturing. So, just to give, like, uh. One or two minutes pause, so that, uh, like, everyone, uh, maybe if someone is also facing the same issues.
No, any… any… don't worry, anyhow, I used to repeat same thing multiple times. See, whatever content I have discussed, so what I have done today.
If you will observe carefully, right, the content that I have discussed, only, uh.
Like, uh, 15 or 12 line of code? In two hours?
That's true. Yeah.
So, in 2 hours, just imagine, right? In 2 hours. So, I keep on repeating, uh, things multiple times, and if you have any question after that, so we have a doubt clearing.
As we are doing it now. Right?
That's all I'm having. Yeah, thank you.
Yeah, yeah, thanks. Okay, so Jabeer, Jabir, uh, yeah, so in between, uh, Kartik, you can share your screen, I think you have permission to share your screen.
Yeah, I can hear you.
Can you hear me? Oh, yeah, thank you. My question is that, too. One is the…
We need to learn of the API testing and, like, Postman, and uh… Or you see in the Fast API and of the curve. We need to… all three of them need to learn, or only one?
You don't… see, I don't think that it's called as learning, by the way. It's a simple utility that you are going to use it all the time.
I mean, like, what is learning in this one? There is nothing called as learning in this one, right?
No.
It's a utility, right? So you have to basically create an API, you have to test it. So maybe test it through a post map, test it through a call it inside, uh, like, a code, that's completely fine.
Yeah, but it's just a utility. I don't call these things as a learning.
Oh, okay, okay, that's fine, that's why I want to run this beautiful. And also, I've faced the problem, I cannot run the, like.
You can share a screen if you want, yeah, you can share your screen, I'm promoting you as a panelist, you will be rejoining.
Python code. Thank you.
Yeah, kind of thing. So what is… I can see your screen. So, show me, like, what you're writing?
So yeah, this is, uh, this is the one, uh, like, this is the one of the comments…
Uv corn, and then what is your file name? So, your file name is basically.
So, inside our Gen AI, there is an API. Just do one thing, right-click on a test.py, right-click.
Oh, good idea. Yep.
Yeah, copy the path, copy path. Okay, fine, now come over here. Uh, UVCon, paste it, paste that path.
Okay, so test.py, remove.py? Column.
Yeah, app. Reload, you can write it, you can escape it, that's completely fine, yeah.
I'm just so dream.
It'll hit now. Now it's working. Could not import the module called as C. Okay, so it's basically a Windows issue, I can say.
Fine. Like, uh, terminate it, Ctrl-X? Terminate. Now, like, uh, arrow up.
Okay?
Yeah, and do double slares. C drive, double slash. Personal, double slash, GenAI, uh, yeah.
No, no, no, yeah, remove that. Double slash here, double slash everywhere.
Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Doubles less, then doubles last once again, then doubles last once again.
I'd still use…
Fine, hit now. Another loading Asia could not import Module C drive, it is not able to.
Just taking this, uh, like… It is, I think, try to take it as a module rather than the directory structure.
You…
Uh, it should… it should work, stop reloading the process, uh, okay, so… Uh, C drive…
No, no, no, no, no, no. It just… It's a string, right? It never understands the string part.
Something like this will work or not.
We'd never understand that. So, here, API, gen AI, fine, and the absolute path is fine.
Now, just do one thing, do a backwards slash. Remove double slash, do a backwards slash.
It's a Windows issue. If you're running the same thing in a Linux and in a Mac machine, it will never give you an issue. It will take the absolute path.
But with Windows, this is the issue.
Just, just hit it, uh, error loading AGI app could not, uh.
No, no, no, just run it, and then test it as a, uh, this one, URL.
Copy the URL, test it.
Going inside a folder is one of the ways, that's fine, can't reach, no, it's not running is… Yay? Fine, go inside the folder and then do it.
Because it's not able to identify you. It's a Windows issue. In other systems, it will not give you the issue.
Great. Okay. But, like, we can give different parts, right, and try to do it.
We can give a path. See, it's just a file, it will try to detect. It is not detecting anything else, just a file, right? So, wherever file is available, we always give that path, but with Windows, there will be this issue.
Uh, where it will not be able to identify or, uh, C drive you are trying to give. So maybe it is not having admin permission or something like that. In other systems, it never gives an issue.
Got it.
Yep.
Uh, can I say something, sir? Manishi. I'm also trying the same, and I am using D drive, but uh… that is happening the same.
Yeah, so with Windows machine, right?
So, it is saying… Yeah, Windows machine could not import module D, so yeah. Can I share?
Go with the absolute path. Simple. Means go inside the directory and then execute.
Yes, that is working, that is working. Yep.
That must be working, right? That will… that will always work. See, path, it works with the path, but there is an issue with the windows, so…
It, like, gets confused.
Garter. Got it. And, uh, I have one another very basic question.
Can we touch base a bit on, like, what is the difference between an LLM and a GPT?
Like…
Uh, so technically, GPT is a LLM. So, GPT is one kind of a LLM. So, LLMs, full form is Large Language Model.
So, whichever is going to give you, uh, output based on your input, and if that architecture is a transformer architecture, it's called as.
Llms, technically, large language models, so which can generate, like, a 128K token, or maybe 4K token, or 10K token at a time, based on your input.
So, in a generic way, it's LLMs. Gpt is one of the LLMs.
Like, we have other LLMs, for example, we have Cloud Sonet, we have Gemini, we have, uh, Llama, we have Maverick, maybe we have a Quen. Basically, we have our DeepSeek.
Okay, so, like, they can be… these terms can be used interchangeably.
So, all of these things are technically LLMs.
Like, we can say that GPT is an LLM, or LLM can be… anything can be a transformer.
Yeah, so anything which is going to, like, take an input and which is going to generate a huge amount of the data, a text for you, or any kind of a data, a huge amount, obviously, that is called as LLM.
Got it. Got it. Yep.
Yep. And again, so it will be having a transformer architecture, and again, so transformer architecture-wise, it will be having many layers, so 96 layers, or maybe a hundred and… like, a 20-something layer, or maybe 500 layer of the transformer is tagged upon each and every one. So, it's called as technically a large language model.
Got it, got it. Thank you.
Hello?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, try with the command prompt. So even Karthik, right? So, try this out with a command prompt. You must be trying, I think, with the PowerCell.
Determinant. Okay.
See how the screen, once again? Yeah. So now, just try to change it to the, uh, this one.
Uh, yeah, go with the PowerCell.
You want me to go to the partial?
Yes. So from here, you can switch.
Uh, early on the.
From your… So, yeah, from your terminal itself, so on your right-hand side, uh, you will be able to see a button plus right.
So just click over there, click, yeah. Now you can select from here.
Got it.
So, one with two…
Nah, I'm trying using the PowerShell, but whenever I got the result with the PI file, but whenever I'm trying with the UVCon.
It is showing the same error. Mm-hmm.
Hmm. Same area, right? So, better to go inside the directory and then, like, do H.
Regardless.
Okay, so from here, if you're trying to execute, then you should write dot slash API.
No, so Karthik, I think you have stopped sharing your screen.
Slash APD. Yes.
So if you're trying this… if you're trying this out from this, uh, folder, right? So, where you are as of now, which is a GenAI folder, which I was able to see. So, from there, dot slash API, so that it will go to the home directory, means this local one.
And then it will be able to cross the API directory, and then it will go inside the file.
Sorry, how…
So this one is .slash. Yeah. God slice, and then API underscore example.
Then slash, or test.
Mpp?
The backslash, basically. Not a forward one.
Yeah, so dot slash API example test app, and then hit.
Mmm, package augment is required before… what happened? Ue, only have written, right?
Yes.
Type error… it is not able to identify. Leave it inside the directory and then execute.
Yep. Got, yep. Yep.
It's facing an issue with, like, a location. Yeah, Javir, go ahead, yeah. So, what is your issue?
Hello?
Uh, my issue is that I cannot run this one, see?
You… it's a UV corn, UVIE. You have written UV. Yeah, it's an IE.
Yes. Yes. And then, like, I do it, like, a test.
Right?
Column Pi. Reload is fine, if you are going to leave it, it's not an issue at all.
Okay, when are, like. Uh, cup, uh, coffee, this one.
Not tonight.
After that, I think some issue. Like, give me a second…
It's gonna show up this message, uh, checking the file.
I can't be raised. Hmm. Just so many, show me the command once again. What you have written.
Just go to a terminal, terminal, terminal. You'll use VS Code. Go back to VS Code.
I don't know. Of base code.
Yeah. What do you have written? Uh… Where is the command? Uv column TST? Okay, so colon app, it's not a Pi, basically, it's an app.
Oh, bye.
Best colon app. That's a command, right? So, test is your file name, app is a syntax by which it will be able to understand. Terminate it, terminate. Ctrl-c.
Ctrl-x. Enter.
Ctrl-x. Yeah. Ctrl-c, Ctrl-C?
Yeah.
Yeah, now, uh, yeah, write it again, up arrow. Just do up arrow, it will be able to show you the same command.
Uh, like, test.
Uvcon? Yes, UVIs, UN test, colon, app, AWP app. Test is your file name, app is a command.
I'll go test.
Colon after. Yeah, hit enter. Enter, enter, enter. Hmm.
Now go and test, it will work.
You can even write, like, local host. No, no, no, it's been terminated.
Run again, run again. Yeah.
Hold on again.
Now leave it. Go to the browser. Leave it as it is, it's running. So now hit it.
Hmm, it's running. Now call slash docs? It'll show you the Swagger UI.
Flash? No, no, no, with that, with the same thing. 12,700.1, 8000 slash.
Okay.
Okay, slash, right?
Yeah, slash DOCS, yes. No, no, no, slash DOC, yes, docs, docs.
Enter. Not DOC, okay.
So I gotta do right here. Docss. Dogs, yeah, internal?
Now, here is the survey. You can see your API, right? Slash add.
Oh, yeah. Okay, okay. Thank you.
You can click it, you can… Yeah, just a minute, I'll allow you.
Can I share my screen?
Yeah, so anyone who would like to share their screen, guys, so please let me know. I'll make you as a panelist so that you can share your screen.
Yeah.
Yes, I also.
Thank you.
Yeah, so money's done, so you will… Okay, Rajiv, one by one, just tell me, like, yes, yes, I'll…
Sir, sir, sir.
Hated on the…
Yes, sir, yes, sir.
Okay, so Avinas, you would like to share? Okay, fine. Rajiv, okay, I'm making you as a panelist, and then Ramesh Kumar would like to share?
I can.
Yes.
Okay, so I think these are the people who would like to share. Jamir, I think your issue is fixed, right?
Yeah. Okay, I can… I can…
Yeah, okay, great. You can, again, like, yeah, join as a… yeah, you can, you can move yourself from, uh… balance to attendees, yeah.
Yep. Yep. That's good.
Okay, fine. So, next one… Mani, share your screen, please.
My turn. My turn. Yeah. Uh…
Yeah. In between, I can take some questions. So, Arman, what is your question? Uh, Prashanth, what is your question?
Hmm. What is your question, Bashan?
Yes, sir, I have a question.
Said that for hosting into the… our website, into, uh, what are called, into the world.
Hmm? Hmm?
Ngrock, NGRock.
As a public, you mentioned someone's website, NGCon, right? So, NGCON… And, you know, so… and Jiram, basically, like, because I was… when I was running the flow, I faced somewhere else, so I skipped the NGO part. So, can you explain one more time, so that, like, how…
Hmm. Share of the screen, share the screen will, like, run it in your screen itself. Share screen.
Yeah, Ramesh, what is your question? If you can ask me?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey. How should it?
Uh, he already shared my screen, so I'm sure.
No, no, so this… we have… We have a Ramesh… yeah, Ramesh Kumar, please go ahead, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, actually, then sure. Thank you, sir, for the outs session. It is a wonderful session.
Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
I said, well, basically, uh, some question. So, in my projects, we are extracting the data from the web application.
Mm-hmm. Okay.
Mm-hmm.
Twitter or something, uh, Twitter and Facebook, Instagram. So basically, uh, what happened over there? Uh, so we are, um, we are, uh, invoking the API call with a sequential patient.
Hmm, hmm. Hmm.
Uh, so iterating one by one. So is there any easiest way to get the API and the asynchronous way?
There are a certain expression that… Because, well, yeah, we're good.
So… No, no, no, please, please, go ahead. Complete your question, please.
Yes. Yeah, right. So, we have the one intermediate platform over there, so Springlr platform.
Okay. Mm-hmm.
So we can get the platform under… it can, uh, extend the data. So, what is the problem I'm facing?
Now, sometime we are facing some connection out, uh, timeout issue.
Okay.
Mm-hmm, hmm, hmm. Mm-hmm.
The API connection time of this shoe. But in our Python code, just, we are using… we are using iteration approach to…
Hmm. Hmm.
For every hundred, every thousand rows. But we are extracting the data from website to generate some page performance data, no? Something…
Mm-hmm, mm.
We have the 10K rows are 20K rows. So about every iteration, we are extracting the 100,000 rows.
Hmm. Okay, okay.
So, how can we… is there any easiest approach to follow the asynchronous?
Uh, synchronous, you can try to run, but as you are trying… So, just go ahead with one thing, no? So, just go ahead with the pagination. Don't try to, like, you know.
Describe all the data, uh, at a time, because you are facing a timeout issue, right? So by the time, it will try to give a request, and it will get a response, so… Basically, the connection will be, like, timed out. So, I will say, simply go ahead with the pagination over here.
There's a concept of pagination even with respect to the API.
Now, what is a page… what is a page duration, sir? Can you give me some idea about it?
Pregenation means, like, a layer-by-layer, page-by-page, page by page, it will be able to access the things. It will not try to access everything at a time.
So that you will not face a timeout issue, basically.
Mm-hmm. So… And also, I'm curious to know that, uh, so right now, we are hitting the thousand rows, right? For every address in…
Hmm. Hmm.
It is exciting, the $1000 from API, but how does it understand sequential.
The first time when we hit the API, it is starting the 1000 from topic.
Basically, whoever has written a function, yeah, so whoever has written a function, right? Someone has written a function, and with the help of API.
Then, again, we… hmm…
You are hitting that function. So, over there, person has already mentioned that, okay, fine, so maximum number of record, or maybe a minimum record, or minimum number of records should be 1000.
Mm-hmm.
In that function, someone has written that.
If a person… if… if person has exposed it, right, see.
Okay, those values we are passing, right, from our client side. So, 1 to 1 host of…
Mm-hmm.
Let's suppose I have written a function, right? So, parameter will be under my control. So, maybe I will expose some of the parameters, and some of the parameters I will not expose. So, if person has already exposed that parameter that you can pass number of records. Like.
Then, you can pass through an API, and it will be able to act accordingly. If person has not exposed that parameter.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, so in that case, you won't be able to do anything.
Okay, and one more question, I got at your point, sir. Actually, we have the 10K record of 20K records, right?
Maybe, uh, how many pagination over there, over the website, overall?
So, is there any party pages added?
Okay. So basically, you should check the… you should… you should… you should basically check that, uh, at, uh, like, how many seconds, basically, you are getting this timeout issue.
And in that time frame, so how much you record you are able to access. So basically, when you are doing a pagination, you should put that particular values over there.
Mm-hmm, okay.
Because everyone will give a different, different timeouts, right? So, timeout is, again, under my control. So, let's suppose if I have designed my system, so I can mention that, okay, fine, so on, 5 millisecond, just do a timeout, or maybe on a 5000 millisecond or microsecond.
Just go with the timeouts, yes? So, if there is no data, or if someone is trying to extract something, or someone is trying to hit my system.
So, again, it's your… so let's suppose you are trying to hit some APIs, so just try to observe that, okay, so in this particular part of the second, how much record I'm able to get, and after how many seconds, it's going for the timeout. You can do the calculation, right?
So basically, you can just try to call the time function before calling the API and after calling the API, and then find out the subtraction of it.
Mm-hmm.
So it will give you the total second, basically. So, okay, fine, so in this many seconds, this is the total number of records, which it was able to fetch, and this is, uh, like, going for the timeout after this, this particular values.
Try to do a pagination accordingly. So that will become a parameter for your presentation.
Okay, but, yeah… Yeah, I agree with your point, but the responses depends on that locality.
And the server location, uh, we have various parameters, right?
Obviously, obviously, obviously, response depends upon the server location, so this is the reason I'm telling you that observe that.
Honestly, you are not going to observe, right? You will not be able to set these parameters.
Okay. And is there anything said the API call trial limit from the tool level?
Maybe on the server side, uh, would they set up any code, the API try limit, and… Now, for example, let us… yeah, yeah.
Yes, obviously, obviously, even, obviously, even, even we have done that, so whenever you are going to hit URI API, right?
We are giving you only one lactokan per day. 365 lakh in a year. So if you'll check the URE, so you will be able to even see the track of those APIs, that, okay, fine, so in this.
Hit, this is the total number of eBay consumption. In this hit, this is the total number of API consumption, and even we have given you the limit.
So, every system will give you a limit, similar kind of a limit.
Okay, have you tried the… have you updated the logic on the server side, right? Based on that only, uh, is…
Yes, exactly. So let me, let me share my screen. I'll show it to you. So, if you have not…
I just submitted number, please.
Yeah.
Now, I have one short question. Uh, can I use the UD for voice chat?
Uh, you can use, basically, Yuri for text-to-speech, but, uh. Inside UniRide was chat. Yeah, yeah, you can use it. I was wondering that Uri API. Yeah, so Ramesh, basically, I was trying to explain you this part. So, here we have users, right?
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, sure.
Today, I have shown you one example, right? So, where I was using an API. So, see, my today's conjunction. So, we are tracking each and everything. So, delimit is basically 1 lag.
And for 335 days, you have basically, like, access of this entire portal, entire system, in one single payment. So, even we are tracking it.
Mm-hmm.
And then, if you come to logs, right, so you will be able to check that, okay, fine, so in one API hit, so what was the total number of token which was consumed, what was the hit, everything, everything we are observing and we are counting.
Okay, good, good.
So, whoever designed the API system, right, this is a system that we have designed. Now, let's suppose you are using an API from someone else. So, for sure, even those organizations or that person will do the same thing.
And again, so here we can see, like, what is the total, like, second, or what is the total amount of time which it took.
Yeah? Duration. To, like, to face this result. So we all, we all does that.
Okay, okay, yeah, yeah. But, yeah, but…
Sorry, where you can see?
Survey… where I can see there are token consumption. Where I can see that one hint, how many tokens they consume, like, they can monitor.
Here, maximum token you have set right over here. So, this is the total number of, uh… So, technically, this is an input token, and this is the output token.
This is…
So, 1,000 token consumed for this request, right? That's what it means.
This one, this one, this one, yeah. So here is a total, like, number of tokens.
So, actually, it is the… Sir, reduce the usage 600, but where the code is controlled, maybe they have updated the logic in the code level as well, right?
How many tokens is downloaded per day, or something? Mm-hmm.
Yes, yes, we have updated the logic in our code. Exactly, we have updated the logic in our code where you are hitting the API.
Yeah. And one more question, right? Suppose we are passing… we passed in Karukaman the maximum token is 1000, right?
So, uh, would, uh, actually, will it go to transfer the data at your time, or otherwise it can transfer the packet by packet?
In between the server and the client and server.
No, so technically… Technically, what happens is that we are… you are trying to hit our API, and you are trying to call our model, right?
By the way, you're trying to call a model. Now, how model gives a response? A model gives a response in a chunks, right? So, maybe, like, 100 tokens, then 100 tokens, then 100 tokens, then 100 tokens.
Mm-hmm.
So in a chunks model will give a response. Now, the response that you are able to see, so we are trying to accumulate, or you can say we are trying to concatenate the entire chunk, and then we are giving you the response.
But behind the scene, when you try to hit the API, so technically you are hitting my function, and that function is calling the model, right? It is trying to pass the input, and the model is going to give the response.
So model always gives us a response in a chunks. Based on the modern, like, model.
Yeah, on the chunks only.
Those junks are… you know, where is the chunking limit, actually, in the software level, or I think, in the server level, that channel?
No, no, no, so that depends upon my model as well, right? That depends upon my model, plus I can try to control it even with the function that I have written.
Okay, okay. And is there any idea what is the limit, uh, of the volume of data to send from source to server?
There is no limit at all. No, no, no, there is no limit at all.
Is there any… which is the best mechanism? Is there any waste mechanism?
Okay. No limit.
Give me… Out of… out of learning?
No, no, no, no, no, there is nothing called as Western boss, and there is no limit at all, technically. It depends upon… Right? How I'm writing my system.
Okay, yeah, but there you go, the data has been transferred chunk by chunk, right? Okay.
Okay. Orcav… yeah, OK said…
Yes, yes, yeah. Yeah. But again, what will be the chunk size? That is a variable. What is the chunk size? That depends upon me, that I can control.
Yep.
And one more question, right, and actually, we have heard there's some different mechanism, right, other than.
Http mechanism, either any other mechanism. Websocket or something, uh, empty, you know, MCP something.
Yeah, so basically the chat… the chat solution that you are able to see, while, uh, even on Zoom, right, so we have a chat.
So technically, these are the example of a, like, a biv socket, or maybe a GPRC call.
Uh-huh, okay. These are the eviction mechanism.
Grpc goals, sorry. So, there are multiple mechanisms. So basically, it's a socket.
Mm-hmm. Okay, okay, okay, okay.
That we are using in our webinar chat. So again, this is one of the way by which we can transfer the data.
And also, MCP as well is kind of the similar one, right? It can handle the heavy volume of the…
Yeah. No, MCP is not the similar. No, MCP is not the similar one. Mcp is basically, it's a kind of an agent, so which will be able to take an access of some of your system.
And then it will try to, like, take a decision automatically. That is technically a MCP. Mcp is not the same.
Work is not the protocol location. Okay, thank you, sir. Thank you so much.
Mcp is a protocol. Mcp is a protocol, but used… not just for data transfer, it has been used to take the full control of the particular system itself.
Mm-hmm.
It's also a protocol. Yep.
Okay, okay. It can take that any number of multiple machines, right? It can take the control of multiple machines.
It can take the multiple machines, or you can say multiple processes, or maybe you can try to give a multiple tool access to that MCP. Depends what you are creating.
Okay, thanks. Okay, fine, Manis, please share your screen.
The…
But then you might be internal.
Sharing. Yeah, sharing immediately.
Yeah. So Moniz, please share here.
Yeah, so this is the one which I'm facing. So, if I'm running this… Yeah, I'm facing this issue, and what to do here, I don't know exactly.
Okay.
Don't worry, we'll fix it. Yeah, so what you are running… Uh, we probably test, okay, fine, remove, like, terminate it, terminate this one. It's a location issue, so just go into the.
Yeah, dominate? Yeah, so basically your test.py file is available inside the API example, right?
Mm-hmm. Okay.
Just do DIR, DIR. Yeah, so…
Hit enter. Yes. So basically, you have a folder called as AP underscore example. Now, do CD. Cd AP underscore example.
You have testified this? Yeah. Just do auto-type completion, press tab.
Okay.
Obviously, yeah, that was the issue. Now do our DIR once again.
Oh, that's what Zaisu, I think.
You will see the file test file. Yeah, now we have a test file here, right, in this location. Now run the same thing, it will work.
Yeah, it'll work. See? It's working.
Sorry, sir.
Galtinita. Actually, Galti nita, hot?
Meh.
Kuchi show.
House mein. I love… Huh.
I got that. Actually, what I… what I did in the morning.
Hmm.
I created a simple insurance small project for… to do the enrollment and create the claim. Just, I'm working in a… means I'm working in U.S. Now, so working in the same project. So I thought, let's create with this, uh, uh…
Ahi.
May still practice. I'm… first time I'm joining 8th grade class, and when a friend go people like you.
Ik simple.
Just jokeda, joked up. Yes.
That is why, I mean, myself. That's fine, now it's working. Thank you so much. Now I'll handle everything, yeah.
Okay, great. Fine. Next, Prasanth, you can share your screen. In… Ah, yeah.
Uh-huh.
Follow-up questions, Ta. Uh… API ka, toh wo open source yan, ko y aapka yuri hitne kiana, matlab… I mean to say ki koi, aapka API.
Girl.
But… But Juwabi, uh, additional ka johobi kiya, to go to open.
What do normal subordin, eh? Huh?
Gotcha. Openap. So then, uh, we can also access from Office debug karate. Joby agar host kar amatlapkar dah.
Okay. If firewall has restrictions in Nicaraga.
Cohesively, ha ha ha, exactly, exactly. External aaphit kariyo.
In the external agar heat kartne ito, us case memo, rather.
Okay, okay. Thank you, sir.
Hmm.
So, several other publicly… rocks, ng rocks. And you're okay.
Ng log, NGROG. Roxnay, rocks, on the rocks while the Roxnay, NG rocks.
And Elok. And Yurok.
My skin's skin circle. Say, share screen. You have a permission. Take care.
Practically na? Yeah, Jabir, you have a question? Please go ahead.
Hello.
Appreciate it. Yeah, I want to know the how to, like, voice chat of the Euro.
Newly, yeah.
So, voice chat with, uh, Yuri, right? Okay, so voice chat-wise, if you will go inside a URI, uh, so…
Uh, let me share my screen. Prashant. I don't know. So, basically, if you will go here, so you can try to click, and then you can speak.
And then you can try to sell it. So, sorry?
This is the text-generated space. Now, it is only for sure, the text, and then send it for… then come the return.
Exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's not for a real-time conversation, for real-time conversation, we have Avni. See, we have Avni. So, where you can upload your resume, and then you can do a real-time conversation.
Oh, yeah, yeah, I saw your video, uh, today.
Yeah.
Exactly. So, Avni is for a real-time conversation, and it is… will try to take the interview multiple rounds. Even it will ask you to, like, open up the prompt, and then open up the window, and it will ask you to write a code. So this is where Avani comes into picture, and Avani is.
Pure conversational AI, speech-to-speech, and you can speak in any languages. Even in a, like, English, Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, and then Arabic, multiple languages Avni can understand. So, Avni will give you always an output in English.
But you can give an input in any languages. Simple. Just like HR, right? So, generally, HR speaks in English, but the candidate can speak in any languages.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah. Is this your own created, or are you gonna… is that someone API?
Just like that. So we have built an abni.
No, no, no, it's our… like, we are using our models, we are using API, we have done the… Yeah, so we have done a lot of engineering behind this one, right?
No, I'm just curious. Yeah.
And then we have created the Avni. The realm conversation one.
This is the grate I saw. Thank you.
Yeah, so you can experience it, it will be amazing, like, uh, it'll be amazing.
Okay, sure, sure, thanks. Yeah, thanks. Okay, so, uh, Prasan, how is circular scene in Europe now?
Anyone else, guys, who would like to share their screen? I can make you as a panelist first. So, Arman, Supree.
Yes, that's a…
I'll go findies. Those who would like to share… just a minute, just a minute.
And also, I have a question without sharing my screen.
So again, those who would like to share a screen, please, like, write in the chat. I'll allow you to share the screen.
So, Haparshand, please go ahead.
Not a login, yeah, just click on Downloads. Click on Downloads.
Services.
Click on Get NGRock. Login to authentication, last one option, last option, last tab.
Last step. Get for free.
Get angry up, okay?
Set download call, and…
A question A, simple, uber, uber, uber, uber, uber. Click on download, last option, and out last tab.
Girly. Oh, yeah.
You deserve it.
Uh, so get the ABM class, man.
It's okay. Okay, so download over here, take it. Open it up.
We can…
Anjib?
Absolutely. Rightly, right click, right click, and then extract.
So… We…
Extract it, huh?
Hmm. Well, yeah, nichadiqa extract ho, niche. I'm just Usman jake, download wo per me browser mein jaake, file browser me jake, CMD marade nahs.
Uber, uber, uber, the PC, Windows user per second to download the grain hamaha pajagi ha.
File the…
Type CMD, type CMD. Though command prompt hold legar is location giuper.
Senior Mundi.
Cmd. Take a hit, hit.
Cmd.
Amazing. Cmd, huh?
Hmm, cool to get some downloads, huh? Multiple throttle systems, PCIe.
Ngrock, NGROK? Are okay, take a space?
Http? Uh, auto space?
Port number.
They go up and running at Tiger, Tiga, up and running, yeah.
I was like, yeah…
Okay. Ah, leave it… no, no, no, Ari Bandho, Yapir.
Simple up arrow, and then hit enter. Up arrow, hit enter.
Uh, control. Arrow hit enter.
Okay.
Command Madlav, UV corn test app. Take a… close it, and uh…
Go to command prompt, CMD. Go to CMD? Hmm.
Okay.
Uh, board number 8000. Hmm, hate.
Oh, yeah, Ab Global, oh, yeah. Authentication failed using required a verified account and auth token.
Or kill escort…
But generally, local valem. Uh… Okay, then sign up KG authentication token lagai or ke aapke system kusto issue aura aapke network mein issue, actually.
Ng… NG ragma sign up kanaklega, wo auth tokan dita hai, line number 1 mein.
Generally, but I think upper network is the issue hai. Maybe BPN vagar, like, okay?
Girls and love. Google sign up, huh?
Accept, create, trigger.
Oh, it's System yanked, eh.
Just fill, fill anything, fill anything?
Continue. Second, second option.
Left-hand side, second option. Your odd token, huh? Yeah, but the copy, personal option.
Token. Huh.
A upper paste, but to remove for a glass wala, hot tokanda, huh? You remove, last wala part.
Ah, yepura… And then you autogan was generated aapar.
Hmm, hinter? So you get auto and say, okay, up, like, ngrock, per se.
So, bus entity? Okay?
Are okay. Space, HTTP, space port number.
Oh, yeah. You wanna…?
So, abiska use karke apan… agarisk.
No, no, no. Localhosting, localhost, localhost system, app nahatag.
Yellow portion, huh? Only that portion. Tps, you know, whoa?
Yellow portion.
No matter who URL access karke apanisa, madlab.
Can you say? Exactly, huh? Well, globally, you are logged? Okay.
Let's go and dig…
So, next, uh, Rajiv can share, uh, Rajiv, and after that, Abhjay can share the screen.
Yeah, so Rajee, please share your screen.
Yeah, Arman, in between, please go over the question. Yeah, what is the question, Arman?
No filibust me. So, we can hook the database also from the API, right?
We can, we can… You can hit anything, anything is literally anything.
Again, databases from eBay, right? You know, using…
See, whatever you can do in terms of programming, right? So, technically, you are just trying to expose it via an API, that's it.
Means you can do literally anything. Api is not having any set of a rule that you can't do this, you can't do that.
Whatever you can do in programming, simple, with the help of API, you are exposing it to the outer world.
Whether it's data that you are trying to fetch, whether it's a store that… data storage you are trying to do, whether it's a streaming that you are trying to do, whether it's a execution of the model or execution of the simple function that you're trying to do, everything means everything.
My pleasure, this is right. For example, I have a database on my local system.
Hmm. Hmm. Hmm.
And I want to export some of my data. To, uh, to other users. So, by using this fast API, can we do that?
You can do it, obviously, you should write one function, right? Just write one function. The way we have written add function, right?
So let's suppose you are writing one function. Now, what that function will do, so that function will try to extract a data from your database.
So, a kind of a data or amount of the data that you would like to expose.
Symbol. So there is a function. So let's suppose I have an employee table. Now, inside the employee table, I have a multiple column.
I don't want to showcase, like, all the columns or all the data to, uh, maybe, like, other person. So what I will do, I'll just try to write select column name, and then maybe I can try to put the limit over there that only this many records, and only two columns, not 10 columns.
So, that function will try to, like, fetch that many number of columns, only two columns.
And you are exposing that function with the API. Simple. So that whoever will hit the API, they will be able to see only those two columns.
Literally no function, we have to define the column under a value.
Obviously, yes, yeah, yeah, so function will return that.
Directly… My next question is possible. So, for example, I have an API code written in .NET systems, right?
Mm-hmm. Hmm.
So that I have workers that we host the API. Only… by using the IIS. So, for example, if I want to expose that data to other users, not locally the client side.
Haha, okay.
So, that code, I have to convert into Firestore API, and then using engine log, I have to expose it, or is there any other way?
If it is running in your local machine, if something is running in your local machine, then.
We try to use a ngrock so that I can expose it to anyone out there, right? Let's suppose same database, same codebase that you are talking about, it's running on cloud.
So, if something is running on cloud, so can I say that it's already available over the internet?
Your system is not available over the internet, right? But if something is running on cloud, cloud is already available over the internet. So, in that way, you don't have to even use NGROG, you can just share the public IP address, or whatever endpoint that you are going to create, and people will be able to access it the way we are doing it for Yuri.
So first, I have to convert that .NET code into the Fast API Python code, right?
No, no, no, so for Dorton… see, no, no, no, no, no.
Net is another programming language, right? A different programming language. Fastapi is a framework, not a programming language. Fastapi is written in which language?
Python, right? So, for .NET, let me tell you the framework, even I don't know, like, what is the framework, I never put it in a .NET.
I know Java, and so.
Well, API creation, yeah? So, in .NET, let me see, uh, how to create the API.
Yeah, so I think ASP.NET Core is by default giving you API creation.
Yeah, by default, it is giving you the API creation, so you will be able to create the API without any kind of framework. You don't have to use… So, Flask is… sorry, this fast API, or Flask, that I'm trying to say. So, basically, this is a…
Framework where you can convert your Python code as an API.
Only for Python code. Let's suppose if you're writing into a .NET, right? So, obviously, you have to write your function into a .NET, and then you have to use a .NET framework, a .NET library to convert something into an API. If you're writing something into a Java, so Java, so that.
See, API is a neutral entity, right? So, whatever native language that you're trying to use, you have to use a framework for that native language.
I don't mind. I'm still confused.
Was recorded, basically, different frameworks or different languages. I was wondering that when we are using.
Uh.net framework host that API. I want to expose that using Python, so that was my concern.
No, in .NET SO, I can see over here, so as per my search, so there is something called system.bib.http, which will help you out to get the API. So it's by default inbuilt inside the .NET Core.
If my database is whatever language, for example, MSSQL or SPL Server, so if I want to expose that data using PastEP, then I can directly call that.
Column names, or whatever it I want, right? Okay.
You have to write a function in Python, technically, right? That function is calling your database.
So, I believe you know that how we can establish our connectivity with the databases, right? Let's suppose if you have.
Mysql. So, obviously, I have to install a SQL driver, and maybe pip install MySQL driver I have to install, and then I have to establish the connection by giving a user ID and password.
So, that will be the core function which will be calling your databases.
Now, you are exposing that function as an API, right? So, simple, add function example I have given to you.
Okay.
Now, here you are trying to pass two inputs, A and B. It is trying to give you some return.
Yeah? And you are trying to explore that add a function as an API, so that anyone can use my add function. Similarly.
You will write a function. Function is calling you databases, and that whole function you are exposing to the outer world with the API.
So, one last thing. Can I explain a difference between the endpoint and that API key.
So, endpoint is basically the URL. For example, I was running something, right? Local host and port number, and then slash dahansu.
Okay, mhm.
Slash XYZ, right? Now, that URL is called as endpoint. Fine? Now, so today, the API that we have created, so it was a exposed one. Exposed one means there was no authentication.
Means anyone can access it. Yeah? But what I will do tomorrow, when I will show you the example, so what I will do, so I'll try to apply the authentication. Means, without a password, you will not be able to access it, and that is called as API key.
Okay, fair, whoop.
Got it. Today, I have created the URL, right? So, I have exposed it with the help of ngrock, and all of you were able to use it directly, right? But same in case of Yuri API, you will not be able to… even though you have an endpoint, but without API key, you will not be able to use it.
So, basically, those APIs are the secured one. So, basically, your password, simple. Api key is nothing but password.
Oh, good one.
As simple as that. That you are trying to access my function with the help of API, like, that endpoint, you're trying to access my function, right?
But, to access my function, you have to give me a password. Otherwise, I will not allow you.
That is called as authentication, or key. Notice? Okay. Yeah.
Thank you.
Okay, so just wait, uh, uh, yeah, so Rajiv, share your screen, please, and then… Mughes is also saying… saying he would like to share his screen. Pain Mukesh, you will… you can share.
Uh, yet…
Yeah, as you go ahead. Share screen.
As soon as… Hello?
In between, just a minute, Mukesh, join as a panelist, so that you can share your screen.
Uh, yes, yeah, I can see your screen.
Are able to see my screens? That's it, sir?
Um, but the year… hai.
I'll talk about Putin?
Host me palli hamne. Lecture upload kiya vata. Toh egbar, kam…
Last week bhi aapko yehi bohata. Danar.
Se bhi.
Teague? Is it T.
Aka.
And they, honestly speaking, many Python installed together, but I am not sure if he will…
Hmm. Hmm, hmm.
Who are working this is who, uh… Or automatic videos are paid.
Gotcha.
Preloaded hain. Believe me, you will be comfortable. Otherwise, we struggle johana, we struggle barbar attire.
Period. Okay.
To go bottom of a puzzle go up. Okay, so, uh…
Does other… Ah, how are you getting ridiculous.
So, may I… Abhishek this same thing.
Ignorant, ignorant. So, who is going to share their screen? Rajiv Nav, he has already shared. So, Abhishek can share their screen, and in between.
Let me take some doubt. So, Supreme, what is your doubt?
Thank you, sir.
Uh…
Am I audible? Hello? Thank you, sir. Thank you for the amazing class.
Yes, it'll be your auditable. Yes, yeah. Thank you.
Yeah, uh, so I've subscribed for, uh, the… bootcamp class of, uh, which started on…
Okay.
August 2nd. On the previous class, I was able to access the link in the dashboard itself, but today it is asking to subscribe again. So I wanted to move into Euron+, but.
I wanted to schedule.
Subscribe, link subscribe, then that is a Zoom link, that is not called as, uh, like, a plus subscription or something.
Which one you're talking about? Like, Zoom link you were saying, or what? Because…
No, it was asking me to… for subscribing, so, like, uh… One sec. I'll just take a Zoom thing.
No, no, no, no, no, but I'm not able to get this point. Uh, so basically, you are trying to… you are able to see your class, right? You are able to basically see the dashboard, and inside that link, and, like.
No, no, it is asking me to buy again. So, by this course, that's 3,300 today.
Uh, the material… no.
Hi, you've said you have already, like, uh…
Or unlock… Yeah, I bought this. That is how I've joined this class, right? I have got the meeting ID from the previous class, like.
Hmm, hmm.
I was able to join, uh, the previous class because I was able to access the link from the dashboard itself. But today, it is asking me to buy this course again.
So, since I had the meeting ID, I was able to join this class today, but also it will have been difficult for me.
No, if you have already bought something, then why it is asking? It should not ask. Maybe just do one thing. So, uh, connect with Divyanshu, or maybe drop a mail.
Uh, by, uh, maybe you, on your mail, right? So we have sent you the, uh, invoices, right?
Yeah.
So, the invoice will check from the backend, but that is not an issue, that is a very rare case. I mean, like, no one is facing such kind of problem.
There may be some issues, no? Uh, he's trying to log in with different, uh, phone number.
Uh, that is the issue, exactly. Hmm.
Because, yeah, because even in my case, I had issues. I already enrolled.
Like, four or five, uh, like, months back, when you have launched that.
Hmm. Hmm.
And then I was trying, and then it says, uh, no, no, you, uh, you need to, again, re-log in and all, so…
No, but this is the… this is the mail ID that I've registered to, and this is the only account I have.
Uh, so, Subrim, you're, you're… So, yeah, with whatever, with whatever mail ID, or maybe phone number, right? Maybe you have used a phone number at that point of a time, uh, while purchasing the batches. Just use the exact same ID, then, uh, like, it will work. Otherwise, if you have, like, log in through a mail ID and then.
Accessing it through a phone number, then… there might be a conflict.
This is the only mail ID I have, this is the only…
Not an issue. So you must have received the invoices, please send that invoice to the Gansu, or maybe over the mail, from our backend, they will check.
Yeah. Sure, sure, definitely, so thank you so much. So, eventually, should I drop it on the same mail thread, or which I got the invoice, or is it the same?
Yep. Yeah. From backup development.
Ping him, ping him personally, he's already a part of your, like, group.
Oh, no, I'm sorry, I didn't join the group as well. What's WhatsApp group?
He's another admin. Okay, not an issue. So, just drop a mail… CC me, CC me, just dahanshu at the rate euron.1.
Right, with your invoices. Just send me an email, I'll forward it to the team.
I'm sure it in your own.com.
Yeah. Sounds to SUDH, NSHU at the rate, you round out 1. That is my official mail ID. Uh, so, uh… Yeah, so I think Suprit… yeah, Supree, that is the one. No, no, no, S-U-D-H.
Let me type. So, my official mail ID is SUDHNSHU at the rate uron.1.
Uh, we'll check from the backend. But yeah, ideally, that should be the issue. I mean, like.
Thank you so much.
Otherwise, I don't see any issue in your system so far, yeah?
Sure, sure. Thanks, yeah.
Okay, okay.
Best way to see the invoices, and there you can able to see, like, till what date you're access is there, like, till.
2026 and all, so use that mail ID, yeah.
Uh… hmm, yeah. Yeah, thanks. Just, just, just, just, just…
My, uh, issues is… I'm setting my screen.
So, good afternoon, sir. Bishek this side.
Yeah, so just a minute, Mukesh is sharing his screen. I'm sorry, Abhisakh is sharing his screen.
Yeah, look… No, it is mine. It's mine.
Yeah. Yeah, it's my spin.
Okay. Okay, fine. I… just a minute. So I can see Mukesh's screen, I can see I'm saying both's screen. Uh, we have a donor screen. Okay, yeah, I'm okay, so first of all, yours, and then, uh, Visay X.
Yeah. Just, just do one thing. Switch off, switch off your virus, switch off your, like, virus protection.
So, I'm trying to download this one, but it says wireless detected. I think someone has just…
A former setting, go to Windows, and then search for protection.
Or setting… No, no, no, I think you are typing something random.
So, uh, protection… yes, just go into that setting. Now, on this one, privacy and security. Go to that one.
Division security. Yeah, so window security, top, the very first one.
Click over there. Yeah. Now, so, just, uh, come down, and then…
No, go up, go up, go up. Yeah, open window security.
Click on Open. Security. And now, virus and threat protection, click over there.
Now, go up… somewhere you will get an option for…
Like, uh, disabling it. If you… can you please cross the… yeah, above one, okay.
Now, go to the previous screen. Previous, previous screen? Yeah, minimize this. Go to the settings screen.
Setting, setting screen. That's the previous one, the behind screen. Yeah, this one. The behind one that was open, right?
Okay.
The setting one, yeah, setting screen. And virus and threat protection, account protection, firewall network protection.
Wider than would…
Virus and thread, click over there. Even, uh, just a minute, in my system also, I can check…
So, privacy and security, window security. Virus and threat protection.
And, uh… Yeah, so just, just go to virus and threat protection, simple.
Hmm. Now, quick scan, uh, you can come down. Allow thread, allow threads. Click on allow threads.
This one, this one, quicker scan, uh, yeah, allow thread. Protection, history, privacy…
Just a minute…
Openos, update, and security, window security.
Update…
Update and security… fine.
Yeah, just do one thing. So, directly try to, uh, call.
But it will go to the same location, even in my system going to the same location.
And virus and threat protection. Manage setting. Okay, fine, got it.
So, go to Wireless Network Protection. Tim? First one, first option, first option. Yeah. Now, go to Manage Setting.
Yeah, yeah.
Manage setting, manage setting, the below one. Yeah, manage setting. Now, from here, turn off. Yeah, real-time protection, off.
Good reputation of.
Yeah, so… switch off. So it's off, now try download.
Not only, right? That was the only issue. Your Windows system.
It was downloaded also, uh, the last time, I mean, last minute, it says, uh.
Okay, so after download, it is giving you the issue. Okay, just wait, just wait.
We'll see. Now it's none. Yeah, yeah.
Downloaded. Okay, and uh… from here, we need to, uh, type CMD there directly.
You know. Yeah, Goins has the same directory.
It's inside JIP, so you have to ungyp it, by the way.
That's already here.
So, yeah.
Extract all. Down, down, down, down, down, yeah, extract all, yes.
Yeah, now from here, you have to go to CMD.
Yeah, now from here, so NGRock space HTTP steps, port number.
If your program is running.
Yeah, program is running.
Hmm, it's up and running again. So…
Not be fun.
Go again inside the directory, not an issue, wherever you have unzipped it.
And, you know, ROK? Space, HTTP.
Nd, a rock. Yeah, good.
Http space 8000 port number. Not column, not column space. Space. Space, space, yeah. Space, 8,000, point number.
Http space.
Wherever your application is running. Yeah, enter. Hmm.
So, you have to add the authentication token. Again, there is a network issue. So go to ngrock, log in, and then add…
It's below, yeah, yeah. Hmm, add it.
Enter. Added, now execute the same thing.
It's working now. You are able to see the URL, right? Https URL, yeah, that one.
Hmm, this one. So now, this URL is equivalent to your localhost 8000.
It will activate.
Yeah. Visit side? Hmm, now it's working. Slash docs?
So that you can… See the Swagger UI? Do you see us? Yeah.
It's available, right? Hmm. Okay, yeah. Now, Abhishek, your screen, I can see.
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, thank you.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, hi, good afternoon, sir. We should decide this side. So, I'm from non-tech background. Unfortunately, I'm unable to run this fork. I have installed past API and, uh.
Uvcon, but still… the error is occurring.
Okay, so terminal, I think you have opened up the Python terminal directly. Just do CTRL-C, Ctrl-C?
Ctrl-c, Ctrl-C. Well, it's not working.
Yeah, yeah.
No, no, it will… just a minute.
Give me control. I can take control from here. Gimme Gonzul.
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah, so I have a control of your screen. So, just delete this one, delete this one, delete this one.
Deliver to this one, let me… make it bigger for me.
Yeah. And, uh, here, so basically, you have from FastAPI, FastAPI add.run.
Okay, fine. So, it's available, AI, BIR… Inside that, you have a folder called as API.
So, basically, here you have a… pilots. So, let me do…
Mm-hmm. Okay.
Let me do DIR. So, see, here you have API.py file, right? So, inside this, if I have to execute this Python file, just as a Python file, so Python.
Yes.
Api.py, and it will be executed as a Python file. So basically, uh, you have not saved it, so CTRL-S all the time you have to do.
And now, you will see the output, 7, right? So, 3 plus 4 is equal to 7.
Okay. Yes.
Now, if you have to convert this as an API, so at the rate app.get.
To get… yes.
Yep, and then you can try to pass the route over here. So maybe your name is Abhishek, right? So I'm giving a name, H-I-S-H-E-K, Abhishek.
Correct.
As a route. I will say it's class, let's suppose Iv6, add a method as a route.
Okay.
I'm going to give. Now, if I have to execute this one, so how I can execute it? So, for that, UV corn. You have already installed the UV corn, right?
I'll go find then. So, UVCon, and then what is the file name? So, file name is API.
Yes, yes.
Apa.
Yes.
So, API, so, and hyphen, uh, sorry, hyphen app. Yep. And I can try to hit enter, so now it will become the API, and it will up and running. See, my API is up, 127.0.0.1.
8000 board. Now you can open up your Google Chrome, and then, like, the way we were trying to do a testing, we can do a testing in the same way. But yeah, now it's exposed.
Would it? Yeah, and if you get stuck, let me know. I can, like, do things.
Okay, thank you so much. I'll do the remaining things. Sure, sure. Thank you so much, sir.
Again, thanks, yeah. Yeah, but a lot, you can share their screen in between, so… Yeah.
Yeah. Uh, sudanbestoin, I can ask, I'm Naresh. Uh, Yazidan. So, basically, I have a question on Euro platform.
Are you honest, please go ahead.
Okay.
So, uh, the one, uh, uh, Euro API you are giving, and as well as Euro chart interface you are giving.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, a chart interface, if I do anything, it won't deduct my API token count, right?
So it is completely independent.
No, not at all, not at all. So, token… Yeah, completely independent. That's the reason, so we have kept both the system, like, separate, right? So…
Your API token we use to showcase, and for chat, you have a different quota. So that 1 lakh token limit that we are saying, right? So that, you will not consume in a chat.
Hmm.
Got it, okay. And my second question… Uh, see, I… I have, uh, I am from, actually, a different Node.js programming background.
Okay, okay.
Okay.
Uh, so I'm trying to build a Y system. So, uh… Basically, I have done the voice system using, you know, browser speech recognition and browser, uh.
Hmm, hmm.
Text-to-speech. So, which is working fine, only problem I am facing, it is not real-time, because when you are speaking, you were text-to-speech, you have to, you know, stop all this configurations I am not able to do.
Uh, because basically it is not a full duplex OS integration, right?
Hmm. Hmm, hmm, hmm.
So I'm wondering, now, Avani, what is the tech stack you have been using to achieve this? And, you know, stream the audio chunks and all?
Yeah, so basically, see, what we are doing, so chunk by chunk, it looks like that it's streaming, right? But what we have done from our backend, so we have basically broken down each and every chunk, and then we are trying to concatenate it in a real time.
Then we are sending it to the model, then model is giving us back, then again, we are trying to convert it, and we are doing it so, like, a fast and a smooth way that it was, like, real time.
And it is able to even understand 1 hour of chat.
So, it's like a core engineering that we have done. Ticket stack-wise, it's just a simple Node.js that we are using. Uh, text-to-speech, like, uh, models we are trying to use, and, uh.
Couple of APIs we are trying to use it. But it's some core engineering that we have done from our side.
So, let me correct if I'm not wrong. You are not using any frameworks like LiveKit or PipeCat.
No.
No, no, no. We are trying to, like, take your input, we are trying to break it down into a smaller, small pieces, with technically small, small chunks, we are sending those input to the model, so that the model will be able to understand the syntax sentiment, uh, that you are trying to showcase inside that one.
And, uh, again, accordingly, like, it is giving us a response. So again, it is giving us a response into a text, we are converting into a speech.
Yeah. Okay. And my last question. So, this is, like, coming to a pricing pattern of, you know, real-time voices, and so I have tried…
A live kit with, you know, deep Chrome, uh, DeepGrum API, or Google text-to-speech, or speech-to-text.
Yeah, everything is like a burning money. If you calculate.
Hmm. Exactly, that's the reason, so… and again, we are, like, giving it something for a very, very affordable price, right? So, people like us can't integrate those direct APIs. It will create an overhead, because again, API is fine, but you have to host a system on your platform, on your server, right?
So again, server cost, API cost, DB cost, a lot of things, uh, falls into a picture. That's the reason, so we have designed our own optimized solution.
Yeah, uh, that's what I understand. Thank you.
Yeah, yeah, thanks. Okay, so, uh, Prabhat, you are sharing your screen?
No, I don't think so. Ramesh, you have a question? Please go ahead.
Hi, students, I have a question.
Yep. Yeah, uh, sir, I heard the comp… yeah, I heard a couple of questions, sir. In my process.
Yeah, please go ahead.
Uh, we have the 10K records from the multiple page, right?
Uh, so we used the Python code to get the APA one by one.
So, in this case, when the message, right, when we extract the 4,000 rows, every time it extracts the 1000 rows.
But it is coming in our Python memory, I think, when we run the… when we process the Python code, it is flowing on the… Yeah, it is, I'm the Python memory.
A realtor, Ram, yes, yeah. Mm-hmm, hmm. Hmm.
Uh, but Optra 10 call, right? After 10 call, it can concatenate all the pro… response, then finally we can store the data into storage location.
Yes?
So, yeah, so my question is that, is there any efficient way to avoid this sequence process?
According to your experience?
So basically, you are trying to say that you don't want to, like, hold something into a memory, uh, basically RAM, right? So you are trying to reduce the conjunction of your RAM. This is what you're trying to say?
No, no, what is my expectation right now? Uh, we have the 10K rows, right, but on the API.
It is starting, uh, for every API call, it is extracting the 1000 rows.
Hmm. Hmm.
Hmm. Hmm. Hmm, hmm.
1k ruse. So, overall, it is taking the 10 calls. So, but right now, it runs in the sequential patient.
Hmm.
But is there any way, will there be any way to run in parallel, and we can consume as soon as possible, that's?
Yeah, within the one table, within the one table, uh. Yeah.
Run it in parallel, and you can consume it as soon as possible. So, in that case, you should use a… Messaging, yeah. Yeah. So, basically, if you have, like, run it in a real time, so just use some messaging system, for example, Kafka, Kinesis.
So Kafka is one of the best, I would say. If you would like to consume it in a real time.
So just try to use Kafka Kafka. Kafka. Kafka is one of the best solutions.
Yeah, yeah, yes. Yeah, yeah, actually, yeah, they are using COPCOM only, topic only. They extract the data from web, right?
Inside of Kafka, we'll be having a tropics, yes. Or maybe classes.
Conversation… Yeah, topics right. So, the topic, yeah, we are meeting the topics to extract the AP only.
Hmm. Hmm.
So, my question is that why don't… why don't… why do we run in sequential? Is there any… Easiest way to extract the data in parallel patient.
Because everything is in the one web page, for example, so let us say, uh, one Facebook, right?
Facebook, the people will post a comment or something. It might be in behind there is some formulated with the APA.
That other 1,000 rows or 2,000 rows, 2,000 people. Can respond to something. So when we extract the data from there, right, maybe…
Uh, is there any way to hit the API in parallel manner, and we can extract the… Is it possible?
Yeah, so call, like, a thread over there, then. In parallel.
Yeah, the reading, yes. Ah, yeah, dreading your sorrow, but…
So call… call a friend.
Yeah, what is the current system in? Cpu running one by one as well, sometimes we'll get the connection timeout issue.
So, are we going to proceed with the parallel process, and is the repetition.
Over the panel processing, yeah, go with the parallel processing then.
In a Python or maybe, you know, some other different languages.
But still, I'm not able to understand the whole holistic picture that you're trying to explain, because, see, the timeout?
Okay. No, no, it's nothing. Yeah, it's not…
I'm obviously sure you can handle it in a multiple ways, so that is one question. Then you are saying that, like, I don't want to save into a main memory, so maybe how I can avoid that? That is a separate context.
No, no, no, no, that is not my question exactly. Main memory, or that is a different story.
My exact question is that we have one database for one topic. We have the 10K rows over there.
Uh, right now, in our existing process, we are starting, uh, for every 1K loose.
So, we are getting the 10K, 10 APA call, it will be run in sequential.
So what would the expectation? Is there any best approach to.
Hmm. Hmm…
Extract the message in parallel and concaten it quickly.
Yeah, so you can do that. So anyhow, you are storing everything into our topics, right? So, you can try to connect with the multiple connectors. So, basically, there will be 10 connectors, or maybe in a 10 parallel connectors, and 10 parallel connector will try to read from the different, different opposite.
Yeah.
Because inside the topic, topic is just a logical name, right? Inside the topic, technically, there will be a partitions, right? So, from a partitions, you are trying to read something, or, like, you are trying to give an object that, okay, fine, so from this, like, place to this place, read the data.
Try to create the 10 connectors parallel, because Kafka supports multiple connectors at a time, even for the single topics.
Right, yeah, part of the collector setup, is there anything, uh, do we need to configure from their side, or…?
Connor means it's a topic, right? Different topic, right?
No, nothing, nothing. Yeah, connector… basically, yeah, so we have to give a topics, and then you have to give, basically, an offset that, okay, fine, so from this to this, only try to give me the data. So one connector will read, maybe, from, like, a 0 to 100 record, then second connector, 101 to, like, 200.
Third connector, 201 to 300. So, in this way, you can configure over there.
So that it'll do the parallel, and it will not, like, breathe the same data. It will read the different, different data.
Yeah, yeah, I agree with this approach, but where is the connective setup? Maybe there are any, uh, code level can be…
Actor is basically a piece of Python. Connector is not a setup, by the way, it's a piece of Python code, right? So, where you install the Kafka driver.
And then, inside a Kafka driver, you will be able to get a function called as Kafka Connector. So you just, like, call that function, that's it.
This is basically, like, one line of a code.
Okay, but is there any limitations, sir, for the connector, this much connection?
Someone… no, no, no. Not… No, not at all. So, Kafka never, like, give that kind of limitation. Yeah, if you have… your admin has given some sort of a restriction.
That's a different issue. So, whoever is managing the Kafka, because someone will be… someone must be managing your Kafka cluster, right?
Mm-hmm.
Someone has already done the setup of cover question, and someone must be managing that Kafa cluster, right? There must be some admin. So, if they have not given any kind of a restriction, then it will not, like, give you a restriction.
We can do the number of calls, so Castle known as Mono, okay.
You… exactly. You are just consuming it, right? You were just a consumer side of it. So, uh, you are not, like, controlling the Kafka. Basically, you are just consuming it, so it will not give you an issue.
Yeah, yeah. Uh, my second question is that, for example, in the live application, right, Uber or something.
Hmm. Mm-hmm.
We are getting the multiple API call from the different region, right? So, as per my understanding, are they using some load balancer or something?
They're coasting the website at the multiple server. That should be okay, but in my current use case.
Uh, it is depending on the particular topic, right? The topic has the multiple data.
Hmm, hmm.
I wanted to make it parallel. That is a challenge. So, what is the challenges I'm facing?
When we hit that one by one as well, even though sometimes we may get the connection timeout issue.
Hmm.
So if you go with parallel, also, it is also most possible, right, to get the connection timeout issue.
So, hmm.
Otherwise, otherwise, just, just do one thing. So, whenever you're trying to consume it, write it inside the spark. Basically, don't use a plain Python, write it inside the spark.
And then, uh, host it on a distributed system. So basically, not a standalone system, not one single system.
Mm-hmm.
Hosted our distributed system. So, in that way, it will be very, very fast.
So, distributed system meaning from source or JSON? Which one?
No, no, distributed system is, like, your cluster, your server, your server, basically, like, the hardware that you are trying to use, right? Because… The rest of the things will be managed by Spark itself.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, I understood.
The parallelism, the distribution that we're talking about, right? So that will be managed by framework itself, so you don't have to even manage anything in that way, and your process will be way more faster.
Correct, sir, but anyhow, the Spark as well, it can consume the data from.
Yeah, EPA, right? From different server and reporting memory and process, right?
Anywhere, yeah, Spark is just a framework. Any… from anywhere, it can consume.
Okay, so I think… so, okay, if you go with the… if you go with the Spark, and it can be eliminated, right? Yes, sir.
So that is… that is another option that you have. Distributed, yeah, distributed system. So that is another option to make your process faster.
Instead of…
That is, like, a best… another best option, you can say.
Okay. Okay, but that's why I know, why do we use the Python? It is running single machine.
So, there are some connection out there, that might be the reason.
Huh, because Python runs on a single thread, right, at a time, so… It will take its own sweet time to call the data.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, okay. And one more final question, right? We, uh, you teach, uh, you know, you taught about the Fast API.
Hmm.
Uh, so what is the real, uh, no, real-time environment, right? Which tool we are preferable for the API-related project?
In case of Python, so it will be Fast API. Fast API is one of the best, one of the best stable.
We have many tools, right? Python is just…
Yeah, there are such a tool, right? Django, Flask…
Django is… Django is… yeah, Django is basically a web framework, so if you have to create a front-end, back-end, all those things, you can go ahead with the Django, but again, it's too old.
Flask. Flask is not a production-ready framework. Flask is just an experimental framework. The production-ready framework is technically a fast API that we are discussing now.
And now, stimulant also is not a kind of use the stimulant as well, though.
Yeah. Stream lead is not for API. Streamlead is for a UI, basically. Streamlead is not used for API.
Can we go with the past AP? It is 100% normal?
Yeah, a stream… You can go with the fast API. Streamlint I will be using, but for UI interface.
Not for API creation. You can't use the stream loop for API creation.
Node.js, Node.js is basically JavaScript-based framework, not a Python. It's a different framework itself.
Okay, so Node.js also… Node.js is the primary application.
Roku. Roku.
There are different language-based, JavaScript-based framework. Yeah, thank you, thanks, thanks, yeah.
Hi, students!
Okay, yeah, just a minute. So, Prahat, I think you are not sharing your screen. Please share your screen so that I can see. And in between… Okay, okay, okay, yeah.
No, I don't have a, like, screen sharing related issues, I just have some query related, uh, carrier. Like, it's my first class.
Okay, okay.
Absolutely. So, actually, my question is, uh, mostly, like, I have 8 years of experience right now. I already gone through the recording, and you already told that deep learning concepts and NLP concepts you are already teaching, uh, like.
But, uh, like, in the interview perspective, I want to ask, if they, like, are going to ask, like, specifically dedicated NLP, like, more than, uh, it is taught in this.
Particular bootcamp, or how it will be.
In this bootcamp, first of all, I'm not teaching NLP, by the way. I have taught NLP in my previous bootcamp.
In this bootcamp, please look through those celebas. There is no NLP. Yes, if someone would like to learn NLP, so for that, recorded lectures are available from the previous classes.
So, you can go through it. In this entire bootcamp, so I'm dedicating just towards a core generative AI.
Core, right? Obviously, like, in some of the interview, I do agree that people will ask you, even statistics, people will even ask for the machine learning question, couple of questions.
Right? Uh, people will ask, like, a lot from the generative AI. Now, if you are going to prepare for such kind of an interview.
Then, you have to watch my other lectures, and then come to the class. I mean, like, come to the class and watch other lecture parallel.
Uh, yes, I got you, but, like, the, like, I'm completely planning to transition to generative AI, so I saw your roadmap, so it has a Python statistic, NLP.
Yeah, so that roadmap which I have given, that roadmap that I have created, so basically, that is a year-long roadmap, that, okay, so if someone is trying to start from the scratch, right, let's suppose I'm completely new to the data industry, and I don't even know, like, programming or anything.
So, in that case, okay, so follow the sequence. So, first I have given Python, then I have given a statistics, then I have given, basically, a NLP, then I have given, basically, a generative AI, then I have given a MCP, then I have given a RAG. All those things, I have given in a sequence over there. That, okay, so in this way, you will be pro.
Look at it.
But, let's suppose I know some of the Python, I know a basic of NLP, I know a little bit of machine learning as well, one or two algorithms maybe, right? I know stats.
Now I have to get into a core generative industry. Now, for that, this is the bootcamp.
So, for interview, it will be sufficient, or, like, if I have time, so I can go to NLP, like.
If you have time, if you have time, then go through this.
Okay. But throughout this also, I can attend the interviews, like, once…
Nlp, yeah? Without… without that also, you can attend the interview, but in some of the interview, maybe you will get stuck, because they will ask some transformer-related question, they will ask, maybe, uh, explain the architecture of a GPT, which I am not going to discuss in this lecture, which I have already discussed in those lectures.
So, okay, and deep learning is not required. Asset is not in the rule.
Uh, NLP, if you're going through, so by default, deep learning is all about neural networks, so anyhow, you will be learning a neural network.
Okay.
But actual story starts from deep learning, you can say. The, like, whatever we do, even inside the NLP, right, whatever algorithm that we are going to learn, whether it's the RNN, LSTM, GRU, transformer.
Or anything, right? It's a technically neural network, and that story starts from your deep learning.
So, after doing Python, I can directly do NLP, and in that case, like, as for your roadmap.
Just follow on the roadmap, because that roadmap I've given. For anyone who would like to become a pro, and they have a time.
Oh, yes, I am taking a year-to-year time for transition, so mostly, so I think I'm wanting to follow all your roadmap.
So I will back propagate mostly, I will do the JNI, then I will back propagate the concepts.
Okay, sure. Hmm.
And another thing, I already have some GenAI experience, I'm already doing, currently, projects on my current company.
Sure.
So, the thing is, I am wanting to learn LLM ops, uh, mostly.
Mm-hmm.
So, do it require Docker and Kubernetes knowledge to…
Ops, wherever ops comes into a picture, Docker, Kubernetes comes into a picture, and we have a LL.
Ops course as well. So if you'll go and search, so that course has been delivered by BAPI, one of the finance mentors.
Right, even MLOps has been delivered by him, uh, one person, and one person I'm trying to, like, uh.
I'm still planning, I have already launched it, but I was not able to do a recording. So, MLOps, LMOps, both the courses are already available, and whatever is required.
It's already discussed inside that.
Okay, so if I do LLM ops, it also includes Docker, Kubernetes, whatever required for LLM.
Exactly. I can show you, I can show you that. So, see, uh, if you will go and, uh, I think my screen is visible, right?
Oh, yes.
Okay, so if I'll go and I'll try to search… Uh, you're on. So…
Yeah, so C. Llm Ops Master, this one. Yeah? So everything, if you'll go through a syllabus, so starting from what is LLM or foundation, then LLM Ops Loading, Llama Index, Hyperstack, whatever it is, AWS, CICD pipeline with respect to LLM Ops, so everything is already… whatever is required for LMOps.
And whatever component that we are using inside the LMOps, including AWS Bedrock.
Right, Vertex AI, uh, then, like, uh, yeah. So everything, everything is discussed here.
I think I checked the syllabus, but I did not find Docker and stuff, so I…
Oker, I believe he must be using, even I'm not able to find out, this is where I'm a little bit surprised.
Uh, but, uh, he must be using inside a project. He is not covering a Docker separately, because in MLOps.
So Milov's master DVC, and then… This is selfless, right?
Here, he is covering inside a MLOps, so he is covering GitHub, DVC.
And the core government. Yeah, here is… he's covering Docker. So basically, LLMOps and MLOps, both you will have to do.
Technically, this is something that we are doing even inside the LLM ops, just with the flavor of LLM, so… He has discussed already a Docker, so he has not discussed over there.
So, for MelOps, we have any prerequisite, because Atlas, I don't have a background of machine learning, so…
No, he's… he's not… so I have already gone through his lecture, so basically, he's not discussing anything with respect to a core machine learning part. Yes, he has taken an example of a model that, okay, fine, this is the model which we have built.
And across that, he's showing the offs part.
Okay, so we are, like, good to go if you don't have no knowledge of machine learning, right?
All of these courses are technically independent of each other. If you know Python, then you can pick any of these courses.
Okay, so the roadmap will be MLOps, then LLMOps, then after that.
Exactly, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
We got it. And the last question is, uh, for, uh, like, for NLP, do we have any prerequisites? Like, if I go to the course of the provided and you run?
See if I'll tell you very simple. So, if you will look into the NLP part.
Now, let's suppose if you're going through this hybrid one. There is a NLP event inside this one, generative AI with an NLP identity and fine-tuning. This was a live batch, which I have concluded 2 months back.
So, which I have completed. So, even here, so I have discussed all these things in a detail. Now, here, so till this point, I think last 3 or 4 modules is not been uploaded. So, this module, I think it will be uploaded soon, within 2 weeks, you can say. This model and this model.
Now, till this model, everything is uploaded, and I have recorded it, so I can tell you, like, what is required, what is not.
So here, technically, I'm not trying to, like, you know, talk about a deep learning, not even here, so using a simple Python, and then I'm trying to use, uh, libraries over here, so NLT can, like, a spaCy, and based out of that, I'm trying to showcase the example. Similarly, so over here, so theory, practical, again, in a plain Python.
Now, even over here, so theory practical with the plain Python, and then model building I'm trying to do.
And, uh, again, in this particular section, which will be uploaded very soon, so it will be theory practical, but here you will be able to see a little bit of a.
Concept of a deep learning. So, because I'm going to teach a RNN-LSTM. Now, inside RNN LSTM, whenever I'm teaching, so obviously I have to.
Show you the practical example, and the practical example will be based out of neural network. But yeah, in that example, whatever component which I'm going to use, I'll be explaining to you.
As simple as that. So, as such, there is only a Python, which is a prerequisite for this particular one.
Now, there is another version, uh, generative AI with NLP, Agent TKI, and fine-tuning. Now, over here, so this is already a very, very long batch, it was a live one.
Uh, so here I have discussed everything in sequence. Whatever, like, sequence that I have given.
But yeah, if you're going through this part of NLP, then I don't think that much will be required.
Susio, thank you for clarifying. The only reason I ask, because I want to master end-to-end, so I think in case I.
Then… then the simple approach is follow the roadmap. If you have a time, if you have time, because many people come and say that, no, they just wanted to spend 400-500 time. I say, okay, fine, go with the core.
But if people are saying that, okay, fine, I would like to, like, follow the roadmap, I would like to, like, spend maybe an eight months of time over here.
I say, okay, fine. So, in that case, uh, don't give a second thought, just follow the roadmap, and here I'm creating a fresh recording of each and everything.
Uh, it's taking a lot of time for me, but yeah, so almost all the module will be completed within a month of time.
Uh, Susan, thank you, thank you for your guidance.
Yeah, thanks, take care, yeah, yeah. Okay, so now, uh, anyone, guys, please go ahead with your question. I think we have, like, a…
4 people only, who have raised their hand. Yeah, so, Sarik, Arman, Avinas, Ganesh. Anyone?
Sir, I have doubt regarding Yuri API. I understand First API and Postman.
Yeah, please go ahead. Yeah, yeah.
But I just wonder about the… how to use and how to implement your API.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Okay, sorry, how to?
How to use and implement Yuri API.
How to use and implement a UI API. That I will be teaching you, don't worry. Like, we have to use a lot, so let's come to tomorrow's class.
Yep.
Because, uh, some of the… Uh, man, some of the students are regarding tokens, and I'm still confused about this there.
Keywords, like, at all.
Not an issue. So, come to tomorrow's class, I'll be, like, talking. Today, I have already shown you, right? So, the curl command with the URI API, but tomorrow… Tomorrow, I'll give you the more demos.
If it is, that is it?
Yeah, okay, okay. Next question, please. Yeah.
So, my question is, like, in today's lecture, we have exposed a function to API, right?
Hmm.
So, what if we have classes and objects? In that case, we can host an entire class through an API?
You may want to call a class, right? So, basically, classes means what inside the class will be having a function. At the end of the day, you will be executing a function.
Function will be doing the task. Classes are nothing but just a skeleton.
Technically, that is the class, right? You create an object, basically.
Okay.
Means a variable of the class, and then the variable of the class, with the help of that, you will be able to access multiple things. Now, that variable of the class, you are going to use in some function.
So, in an ideal way, it's a function that we try to expose, because it's a function which will be doing the real task.
Sorry, whatever, whatever? Sorry? Call… no, no, no, you didn't get that last line.
The call and the past API.
So, in today's, let's say you use no Fast API, then call.
Hmm. Oh, good, huh. No, no, curl is a generic command for a Linux system.
Yeah, let me explain the difference between these two.
Or maybe you can say a command prompt. So wherever you have to hit some API or some external system, so the command is basically curl.
So, it's a generic universal system. Yeah, fast API is basically a framework by which you are creating an API. Gurl is, like, uh, just hit the API, or maybe if you have to hit a GitHub even.
Right? So we can curl the GitHub.
Yeah. Right? Okay, next one, please. Yeah. Next one.
Anyone, guys, so after that, we'll close the class, so I think, uh, I can see Ramesh, I can see Avinas, I can see Sarik, so any.
Hi, sir. Hi, students. No, COVID, COVID, sorry.
Things that we have to…
Yeah, so… Ramesh, yeah, please go ahead.
Yeah, Sarah, I had a basic question, something, right? We, uh, what is the difference between WebCook and, uh.
Yeah, it'll be… does it automatically redirect? I love who… yeah.
Bev hooker, webhook, webhook, actually. Bev hook, not cool. Yeah. Hmm.
Diverpool, yeah.
So, basically, the meaning of Behook in a layman way, if I have to explain it to you. So, let's suppose you are trying to hit my API, right? You're trying to hit my system.
Now, you understand the API part, right? So, basically, API is nothing but you are executing some function, or maybe, let's suppose.
Mm-hmm. This…
You're not executing any function, you have logged in into my system. Now, on your login, when you have logged in into, like, you're on, let's suppose, I have to trigger one alarm.
Basically, that, okay, Ramesh has logged in to your own system.
Right. So, basically, that trigger can be done with the help of webhook. That is something called as webhook.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Okay, webcook is also beginning with the AP process in backend, something.
No, no.
Oh, it's a bit different, I would say. Bit different. Ultimately, under the hood, like, we have written the function, right, but the concept of Behvoo says that, that, okay, on any kind of an event, if you have to trigger something.
Right? Then you can try to use… For example, you do a payment, right? So, basically, we are using a payment gateway. We don't have a payment gateway.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So, we are using, technically, a payment gateway. Now, so once you do the payment, let's suppose… not on our program, on any platform in the entire world, right? Maybe Amazon, maybe Netflix, wherever, whatever, like, wherever you're doing a payment.
So, payment will not be from Amazon, payment will not from Netflix, or payment is not something that Euron holds, right? We are using RoserPay, someone will use Stripe.
Someone will use PayPal, basically. So, whenever you do a payment, we have to give you the access.
But payment is happening in different systems, right? And access, you have to, like, get into a ROM system.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Course access, right? So, whenever you will do a payment, so that's on that action. So, let's suppose you have done the payment, so that is going to be one of the action. So, we call a bev hook.
Okay.
Right? So, that will return a data success message or failure message, that will return the success message with your detail, your login ID detail, saying that, that, okay, fine, so this person who has logged in into your system with this ID.
So, basically, he has done the action. Now, on that, do the reaction. Means, give the course access.
Mm-hmm.
So, technically, the action, right, the call that we are trying to get, that is, that we are getting from our.
Yeah, right, automated action. Correction.
Exactly, automated actions. So basically, whenever your… someone is going to access your system, you have to, like, generate a reaction that is called a bev hook.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, so Senator Esper, your experience, what are the challenges, uh, uh, did you face in EAP-related things, sir?
You need a couple of points here, eh? Challenges, no, I think.
Hell a lot of challenges. I mean, like, see, understanding… See, unless you are not working in one full-scale project which has been used by 10,000 people, right?
Believe me, you will never be able to experience a real challenge.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. We'll go, got it, okay.
Challenge is always scalability. Scalability, security, right. Someone is going to override your API, maybe some endpoint is exposed one.
Uh, maybe you are not able to… for example, we are giving you token, right? So, initially, we have launched, and there was a glitch, for example, right? That we were not able to, like, you know, calculate a proper token.
You will keep on hitting, but our system was, like, running the calculation system, right? Which was trying to calculate the token.
So, it was, like, delayed. So, let's suppose you are hitting back-to-back, back-to-back, my API, and I'm not able to calculate it, so in that…
I will end up giving you more tokens, which is a business loss for me.
Yeah, yeah, yes, correct. That is… might be the reason, sir. Sir, and one more challenge is I am facing now, really. Uh, so basically, when we extract the payload, right, and it is a big, bigger JSON, big kind of the JSON.
So, I think, how do we need to, uh, parse it and, you know, at least.
How do we either any easiest way, uh, to parse the entire JSON and understand this Excel?
Generally, any thumb rules for this? I understood because we got the code over there, we can parse it.
But is there any easiest way to, uh, extend the payload, no? And it's not to extract the payload, to understand the JSON.
Stucks here.
Okay, the seller structure, just use JSON viewer, then copy-paste JSON data in a JSON viewer.
Yeah, but it is coming the line by line. We have almost 10K, no, I think no 100,000K, or… to 2,000K something.
See, it's just… JSON is more like a schema, right? So if someone is sending you, like, one JSON packet, you are saying it's having 10,000 lines? Only one JSON packet?
Melissa, that is one data, right? One… One data, right? One data URL.
You know what, yeah, one packet, one packet is almost 10,009… Yeah, one… one data. Correct, correct, you're right.
Then… then you… one… if one data length is, like, thousand lines, what you can do? Nothing. You have to understand it, right? Because someone has created it.
Yeah, it is a challenge is to understand the structure, right? Because when we extract the data from the web, right, especially Twitter or Facebook.
I don't think that… It's not that challenging. No, no, no. It's not that challenging. I mean, like, JSON gives you a very formatted response, like.
Uh, it is…
Layer by layer, layer by layer, like, uh, just try to put it inside the gist.
Yeah, a little bit, okay.
Yeah, so just try to put it inside a… Uh, like this one. I'll say… Uh, put it inside, uh…
Json viewer, and I think you will be able to understand.
Yes, yes, yes.
Jason Record, Jason Weaver, okay. Then, if you want to make it a table or permitted, that should be better, right? And to understand the whole thing, so… table for me.
Then call Pandas, yeah, call Pandas then. You can call Pandas for that.
For a tablet format. Hmm.
Okay. Uh, pandas by data point. Okay, independent. Yeah, that's why, you know, we don't have any mapping documents over there.
Hmm.
Because when we extract the message from the Twitter or something, it, uh, it is having a lot of attributes.
Hmm. Hmm.
The country, jaggery, blah blah, like this. But we cannot understand the schema whole thing, because when you look at the payload pile, it contains a lot of number of lines.
So, that is a difficult tool, it will take in time, it is a manual process, it is taking time to understand the whole schema.
Even though we are using it…
No, not at all. Just do one thing. Upload one JSON into a URE, and then ask Yuri to explain. It will explain you.
Simply… That's a… that's the simplest way.
Yeah, yeah, I totally agree. No, no, actually, we… how did we use main? Actually, we used to the Spark and exploding operation.
And try to read the data. We did it, but also, anyhow, the schema is lengthy, and we had a lot of nested schema.
Uh, so I do the parsing is something difficult to. I get it exactly that. So, a lot of, uh, no, it is a… it is contains a lot of nested schema.
Okay, okay.
Okay. Okay, okay. Okay, yeah, next one, Arman, you have a question?
Yeah, so on that, on your first, uh… part in which you saw the theory where we are using Google Play application.
And we are transferring the money, so it's related to that. Whenever we are using API, so indirectly, I think, is it… It is hitting the database, right, to extract the money and then depositing from the.
Basically, it is hitting the function, function is hitting the databases.
Both real good. Also, one last question, like, for example, if someone wants to get higher than Euron.
Of this Gen AI code. So, what will be your criteria evaluating that, based on the challenges and assignments you have given in the course?
Uh, our team takes a rigorous interview, and they take an interview not a regular way, they will give you the project.
A project where you can use AI and whatever you want, you can use it.
But yeah, at the end of the day, we'll be looking for the final result.
Yeah. Okay, next question, Altya, you have a question? Please go ahead.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah, hi, Sudan Shu. So I've been following you from… since you're in your own days, so currently I am working as a data engineer.
Hmm.
So, my company is indulging into this giant AI project, so I've worked on something called Gradio for the UI part.
Okay. Hmm.
Okay.
And a little bit of 2A. So the project is getting bigger. So, like, I, uh, I just want to know your opinion. So, in the day-to-day life, since companies forcing us to use.
Ai majorly. So, what I do is I ask for the system architecture, I ask for the modules.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
And I, uh, get the code, but I try to review each and every line before sending it to the production.
I know my architecture, I know my code. Uh, the problem which I'm facing, and I want to know your opinion, is that the LLMs are generally having a context limit.
Uh, so they sometimes hallucinate whenever the context gets larger, or the project gets larger. So how can I, uh, like.
Get a way out of it. Like, how.
Mm-hmm. Break down… break down, break down into a chunks. It's a normal issue with… which we all are facing, by the way.
So, just try to, like, chunk it out, and try to call a multiple agent instead of, like, doing… or generating a response in a single sword.
Okay.
Even we are doing the same thing, like, in multiple cases, right? So, whenever we are trying to build… for example, the Avni that we have released.
So, Avni, you can try to even chat with Avni for hours, and at that two real-time conversation is happening, right? So just imagine how long context we are able to maintain.
So again, we are trying to, like, do a checking over there, and we are trying to break down the data.
And then we are sending to the LLM, so that it will be able to create… understand your context, as well as it will be able to, like, generate the next question for you. It will be able to ask even a follow-up question. So if you'll chat with Avni, right?
It will be able to ask even a follow-up questions. Like, just like a real, real interviewer, which asks the, like, a real follow-up question.
So, checking is the only way, call up multiple agents, basically.
Right? Call a multiple agent and do the checking.
Okay, so… So, if my project has multiple Python packages as well as modules.
So, in that case, uh, how can I basically ask for the next follow-up codes?
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Like, without losing the context.
So, yeah, so basically, you have to create the context, right? So whenever you're trying to send the next one, whenever you're trying to send the query, so for example, okay, so let me give you the very simple example, right?
Right.
So, in our agent, we try to give a memory. Right? Whenever we try to create, or maybe if you're not created the agent, so let's try to go ahead with that second approach. Approach number two, we're RAG.
Yeah, yeah.
So, I think you know the meaning of RAG? So, basically, whenever we are trying to send a query, what do we do? So, we try to send a query, first of all, to our vector databases, right? Now, based on that query, it will try to generate the top K context.
Right. So that's similar to such a.
Fine? And then we try to append query plus top a context, and then we send it to LLMs.
Right, right, perfect.
This is what we do in RAG, right? Correct? Yeah? Now, do the same thing over here, so that it will be… because, see, whenever you're trying to generate the new code, let's suppose I have already written, like, a 10,000 line of code, and maybe hundreds of modules.
Agree? Yeah? But again, so to generate the next one, those hundreds of models are not required, right?
I think it'll be good.
Dependency will not be on hundreds of models. Maybe there will be a dependency on 5 model, 10 models, maximize.
Bye.
Correct, correct, correct, yeah.
Yeah? Now, so when you're trying to append this context, top K, which I'm trying to say in a RAG approach, top K when you're trying to send.
Obviously, it will be able to retrieve those, like, a relevant module, and then it will try to generate, and your entire, like, context length will be smaller in that way.
Okay, cool, I understand now.
But if we all follow the same approach, like. And this is a very normal problem nowadays for us.
My second question is, I'm, uh, like, I'm working here since past 3 years, so I'm trying to switch in the data engineering domain, so is it a good combination, data engineering plus LLMs?
Little, little, little. I have started my career as a HP consultant, then data engineering, and then data science. Because, see, data science maybe give you a knowledge, expertise, and experience. Uh, with respect to algorithms and all those things, application building, model building, everything.
Data engineering always try to bring you a flavor where you can build a real system with a scale, with a security, and with a huge volume of traction, plus optimization. That is the capability that we get from the data engineering, and somewhere.
Uh, you know, my life, so I have, like, started as a CP consultant, then moved into Itang, then moved into a data science, right?
So, that was my progression into, like, a tech journey. And because of that, somewhere I think that, like, I'm able to design the system, or I understand the system, actual system, right? Even on a very, very low level.
If someone is trying to learn data, big data, right, or data engineering.
I always suggest, go for it.
But also, like, whatever you have taught, you, you know, I use it on a daily basis, so, uh, like the REST API part, so I understood totally, although I have used Flask majorly.
But it's good to learn Fast API because it is now majorly used.
Yeah. No differences between flask and FastAPI. I mean, like, I don't think that you have found out any differences, major differences.
Yeah, no, not major difference, but since there's something called Pyrentic, you have data validation.
Uh, yeah, so in Flask, there is no identity concept, but yeah, in, like, a fast paper, there is a concept of identity, just for data validation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, sure, that's the only reference.
So that's from my side, thank you.
You know. Yeah, but Flask is not a production ID, uh, basically. So, in a production, you can't send a Flask API, but Fast API is a production ready.
Yeah… Yeah, right, right. Thank you.
Yeah. Okay, thanks. Uh, next one, we have two people only, Avini, uh, Avinas and Sarik. Anyone go ahead, after that, we'll close the class.
I have to, like, celebrate Rakshamandan as well.
I'm just… No, um, there's no query from my side. I'm just in line.
Yeah, sorry, please go ahead. Okay, fine.
Okay, no, no. Fine. Thank you so much, everyone. Take care, and tomorrow we have again a class, which will be the continuation of today's class itself. I have already given you the assignment, do it.
And recording will be available, uh, in the next 4 to 5 hours. So whenever it will be ready, we'll upload the recording with that. Thank you so much, everyone. Happy Rakshawandan, take care, and see you again.
Same time tomorrow. Best visas, thank you. Thanks, everyone. Take care.
Same time, 9 AM IST. I think we all know, like, where to find the link, and hope all of you have enjoyed the class, all of you have learned a lot.
And we had an amazing discussion. Let's continue the same enthusiasm for a very, very long time, at least for 3 months.
Okay.